1             The case of the prosecution is that on 18.08.2010 complainant Anita went to 

Police Station Saraswati Vihar along with her grand daughter (daughter's daughter) aged 

about 9 years and made complaint Ex.PW­3/A wherein she stated that she was residing 

at 771, 2nd Floor, J.J. Colony, Shakurpur, Delhi, and that her daughter Jyoti, who was a 

widow,   was   also   residing   with   them   along   with   her   9   years   old   daughter   i.e.   the 

prosecutrix and one year old son.  She further deposed that her husband Suraj Pal was 

doing work of Polishing utensils in a steel factory and that accused Sharvan Kumar Rai, 

who   was   residing   in   their   neighbourhood,   was   also   doing   the   same   work   and   that 

accused   was  on   regular   visiting   terms  to  their  house.     On   17.08.2010  also   accused 

Sharvan Kumar Rai came to the house of complainant.   On 18.08.2010 complainant 

found   that   prosecutrix   was   lying   down   in   a   dull   and   disturbed   condition.     When 

complainant   asked   her   about   it,   she   told   complainant   that   on   the   day   before   in   the 

evening accused Sharvan Kumar Rai had taken her to the roof of the house and had 

removed her 'nicker' and had also removed his clothes and committed wrong act with 

her.     On   coming   to   know   all   these   facts,   complainant   brought   prosecutrix   to   Police 

Station.  The complainant and prosecutrix were sent along with Police staff to Bhagwan 

Mahavir Hospital and on return back complainant further stated in her complaint that last 

night accused Sharvan Kumar Rai had come to their house at about 8:00 PM and that 

he had already consumed liquor at that time and that he told Suraj Pal, husband of 

complainant, that he would stay back for the night at their house and that Suraj Pal told 

accused that they both would sleep on the roof and that accused should go to the roof 

with a blanket and that he would follow.   Thereafter husband of complainant went out. 


    SC No.42/11                         State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                      Page Nos. 2 of 29
                                                      3

Accused   Sharvan   Kumar   Rai   asked   prosecutrix   to   show   him   the   roof   and   on   this 

prosecutrix   went   with   accused,   at   about   8:30   PM,   to   the   roof.     At   about   9:00   PM, 

complainant's   husband   returned   back   and   at   that   time   accused   Sharvan   Kumar   Rai 

came down from the roof and said that he was going to his own house.   Complainant 

stated that after prosecutrix had disclosed about the incident to her, she could make out 

that accused Sharvan Kumar Rai had committed wrong act with her grand daughter on 

the roof between 8:30 and 9:00 PM.  She further stated that prosecutrix had told her that 

she had not told about the incident to anyone out of fear.   On this complaint made by 

Smt. Anita case FIR No.314/10, Ex.PW­4/A, was registered at PS Saraswati Vihar u/s. 

376/377/376(2)(f) IPC against the accused Sharvan Kumar Rai.  



2             During the course of investigations, IO prepared the site plan Ex.PW­19/B at 

the instance of complainant and also seized the exhibits i.e. the blanket and the clothes 

of the prosecutrix.  Accused Sharvan Kumar Rai was arrested in the case.  Prosecutrix 

was also got examined at Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital for determination of her medical 

age.  Exhibits of the case were sent to FSL Rohini.  The statement of prosecutrix was 

also got recorded u/s.164 CrPC.   After completion of the investigation, the charge sheet 

was prepared and filed in the court for trial.  


3             Upon committal of this case to the court of Sessions, charges for the offence 

under   Sections   376(2)(f)   IPC   was   framed   against   the   accused   Sharvan   Kumar   Rai. 

However, accused   pleaded not guilty and claimed trial and thereafter, the case was 

fixed for prosecution evidence.



    SC No.42/11                        State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                      Page Nos. 3 of 29
                                                    4

4            In order to prove its  case, prosecution has examined 21 witnesses.



5            The PW­2 is the prosecutrix.   Since the witness was aged about 9 years 

when she appeared to depose in the Court, learned Predecessor put certain questions to 

the witness to ascertain her capability to understand the question and to answer the 

question reasonably and after ascertaining the competence of witness to answer the 

question, recorded her statement wherein  the witness stated  that she knew accused 

Sharvan  Kumar Rai  as he  was friend  of  her  Nana   and  that  on   17.08.2010  she  was 

playing at her residence where she was living with her Nana, Nani and her mother as her 

father had expired.   Everybody else was also present in the house at that time.   The  

PW­2 further deposed that accused instigated her "Chhat (roof) Dhikha La Beta"  

and   that   PW­2   took   accused   to   the   roof   of   their   house   and   that   on   the   roof  

accused removed her clothes and also removed his clothes and committed sexual  

intercourse with her and that it was night time and that she started weeping and  

came downwards.  The PW­2 also stated that accused had threatened her not to  

disclose   about   the   said   incident   to   anyone.    The   prosecutrix   was   shown   her 

statement u/s.164 CrPC, after the same was taken out from a sealed parcel sealed with 

the   seal   of   'VA'.     She   identified   her   signatures   thereupon   and   the   statement   was 

exhibited as Ex.PW­2/A.


6            During her cross­examination, PW­2 stated that she had not disclosed the 

fact about rape being committed upon her by the accused to anyone prior to that day. 

She also deposed that they were residing in one room in the rear portion of the house 

and that there was another room in the front portion of the house where someone else 


    SC No.42/11                       State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                    Page Nos. 4 of 29
                                                   5

was   residing.  In   response   to   the   specific   question   PW­2   stated   that   she   had  

deposed whatever had happened with her and nobody had forced her to depose  

in the Court.  PW­2 denied that some other male member had accompanied her on the 

roof of the house on that day and that it was not accused.   During her further cross­

examination   prosecutrix  stated   that   her  Nana   Suraj   Pal   was  doing   work   of   polishing 

utensils.  She could not state about the trade of accused Sharvan Kumar Rai.  She also  

stated that accused Sharvan Kumar Rai used to visit at their residence prior to the  

incident every Wednesday as it was a holiday of the factory and that during his  

visits, he used to consume liquor with her Nana and sometimes quarrel ensued  

between them.   She further stated that on the day of incident, no quarrel took  

place  between  accused  and her  Nana  and that quarrel  had  taken place  on the  

previous day of the incident between them and that at that time accused Sharvan  

Kumar Rai had said that "Maine Aapko Paise De Rakhey Hai" due to which Nana  

of PW­2 got angry.  PW­2 denied that accused had been falsely implicated in the case 

as her Nana had borrowed some money from the accused and was unable to repay the 

same.


7            The PW­3, Smt. Anita, is the grandmother of the prosecutrix.  She deposed 

as   per   averments   made   in   her   complaint   Ex.PW­3/A   with   some   improvements   in   as 

much as she stated that on 18.08.2010 prosecutrix was not getting up in normal course 

to bring milk from the nearby shop and that PW­3 again requested her to bring milk as 

her mother was go to work and that on her asking prosecutrix brought milk but again lay 

down on the bed and that after mother of prosecutrix left, PW­3 asked her reason for her 

discomfort and she narrated that the accused Sharvan Kumar Rai, who had visited their 

    SC No.42/11                      State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                   Page Nos. 5 of 29
                                                     6

house on previous night, had committed rape with her on the roof of the house and that 

she   also   told   PW­3   that   accused   removed   his   clothes   as   well   as   her   clothes   and 

thereafter committed rape and that she took prosecutrix to Police Station and filed her 

complaint Ex.PW­3/A.  The PW­3 identified her signatures on the seizure memo of the 

blanket and clothes of the prosecutrix and the same was exhibited as Ex.PW­3/B.  She 

also identified her signatures on the arrest and personal search memo of the accused 

i.e.   Ex.PW­3/C   and   Ex.PW­3/D   respectively.     The   case   property   was   shown   to   the 

witness.     She   identified   the   blanket   (having   some   oval   shape   cut   marks   made   by 

examining authority) as the same which had been handed over by her to the Police and 

the said blanket was exhibited as Ex.P­1.  She also identified the top and underwear of 

the prosecutrix and the same were exhibited as Ex.P­2 and Ex.P­3 respectively.  



8             The witness was cross­examined by learned Additional PP on the point of 

consuming   of   liquor   by   accused   and   husband   of   the   witness   and   on   being   cross­

examined   by   learned   Additional   PP,   the   witness   stated   that   both   her   husband   and 

accused had taken liquor on the day of incident.   She denied the suggestion that only 

accused was in drunken condition on that day when he came to their house.  During her 

cross­examination, PW­3 denied that on the day of incident a quarrel had taken place 

between her husband and accused on account of money which was lent by accused to 

husband of PW­3.   From further cross­examination of PW­3 it is brought out that they 

had a house constructed in the area of 25 sq. yards with one room constructed in front 

and second room on its back and that the second room was let out to tenants, who slept 

in their own room.  During her subsequent cross­examination PW­3 stated that she had 

never seen any of her neighbours sleeping on the roof of the house.  She volunteered to 


    SC No.42/11                       State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                     Page Nos. 6 of 29
                                                 7

state that there was boundary wall on the roof of neighbouring house (Diwaren Khari 

Huai Hain) and that they themselves never slept on the roof and slept inside the room. 

She   then   stated  that her statement  was recorded  in  Police  Station  by the  Police  on 

18.08.2010 and that inquiries were also made from her husband but she was not sure if 

his statement had been recorded by the Police.  From further cross­examination of PW­3 

it is brought out that accused had not slept in their house on previous occasion nor did 

they permit any of their neighbour to stay overnight on previous occasion and that her 

husband was not having any other friend, who used to take liquor with him and that 

PW­3 herself did not object when accused was asked to sleep in their house.  The PW­3 

also stated that she had handed over clothes of prosecutrix to the Police on 18.08.2010 

at her house and that the said clothes were sealed at Police Station in her presence 

when she was called there in the evening and that she had told about the address of 

accused to the Police in the evening at 7:30 - 8:00 PM on the same day.   She also 

stated that mother of prosecutrix used to leave for work at about 8:45 AM and that on 

18.08.2010 it was a holiday for her husband being Wednesday and that her husband 

and accused used to have holiday on every Wednesday and on 18.08.2010 accused 

was also on leave.  PW­3 denied that accused had been falsely implicated in the case.



9           PW­18,   Ms.   Vandana,   learned   MM,   had   recorded   the   statement   of 

prosecutrix u/s.164 CrPC.  She proved the proceedings conducted by her in this regard 

as Ex.PW­18/A to Ex.PW­18/C i.e. application u/s.164 CrPC as Ex.PW­18/A ; statement 

of prosecutrix u/s.164 CrPC as Ex.PW­2/A ; certificate given by her on the statement as 

Ex.PW­18/B   and   endorsement   on   application   of   the   IO   for   supply   of   copy   as 

Ex.PW­18/C.  

    SC No.42/11                    State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                 Page Nos. 7 of 29
                                                    8



10           PW­5, Dr. Pankaj Shah, had examined the prosecutrix on 18.08.2010 vide 

MLC Ex.PW­5/A and referred the patient for gynaecological examination and deposed 

regarding the same.  During his cross­examination PW­5 stated that he was told about 

the assault by the grandmother of the victim child and that no history was disclosed to 

him by the child and that there was no physical injury found on the child.



11           The gynecological examination of prosecutrix was conducted by PW­1 Dr. 

Yukti Wadhavan, who deposed that on 18.08.2010 she was referred prosecutrix aged 

about 9 years for gynecological examination vide MLC No.1239 and that she prepared a 

detailed   examination   kit   of   the   victim   wherein   she   recorded   her   observations.    She  

proved the observations made by her on MLC, Ex.PW­1/A, of the victim at point  

"B", the emergency card of the patient, which was in the handwriting of PW­1, as  

Ex.PW­1/B   and   further   proved   the   observations   made   by   her   in   the   kit   for  

examination of victims of sexual abuse as Ex.PW­1/C and stated that the findings  

made by her were consistent with recent sexual intercourse / assault.  She further  

stated that she had advised for bone age determination of the prosecutrix.  This  

witness was not cross­examined on behalf of accused.


12           It appears from the record that prosecutrix was again taken to hospital on 

25.08.2010 for determination of her medical age.   At that time she was examined by 

Dr.Pradeep, who had left the services of the hospital by the time matter came up to the 

stage of trial.  The MLC of the prosecutrix was proved as Ex.PW­14/A and handwriting 

and signatures of Dr. Pradeep thereupon were proved by PW­15 Dr. Rajesh Satija and 


    SC No.42/11                       State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                    Page Nos. 8 of 29
                                                  9

PW­20 Dr. Gopal Krishna, who were conversant with handwriting and signatures of Dr. 

Pradeep.


13           PW­14,   Dr.   Abhilasha,   had   given   findings   from   the   dental   side   after 

examining the prosecutrix and she proved her findings on the MLC from point "X" to "X". 



14           PW­16, Dr. Shipra Rampal, had examined the X­ray plates of the prosecutrix 

vide   MLC   No.14315   and   stated   that  after  examining   the  prosecutrix,  she   opined   her 

estimated bone age to be between 10 - 12 years as on the date of examination.  She 

proved her report in this regard as Ex.PW­16/A.


15           PW­13,   Dr.   Bhavana   Gupta,   had   prepared   the   MLC   of   accused   on 

18.08.2010   and   proved   the   same   as   Ex.PW­8/A.     Subsequently   the   accused   was 

examined by Dr. Pawan.  His handwriting and signatures on the MLC Ex.PW­8/A were 

proved by PW­8 Dr. Sanjay Kumar Dosar, who was deputed in this regard.  



16           PW­9, L. Babyto Devi, is the Senior Scientific Officer from Biology Division of 

FSL.   She had examined the exhibits in the case.   She proved the report of biological 

examination as Ex.PW­9/A and that of serological examination as Ex.PW­9/B and stated 

that the said reports were forwarded to SHO PS Saraswati Vihar vide forwarding letter 

Ex.PW­9/C sent by Director FSL.  


17           PW­4, ASI Om Prakash, was posted as Duty Officer at P.S. Saraswati Vihar 

on 18.08.2010.   He deposed that on that day PW­3 Anita w/o Suraj Pal came to the 


    SC No.42/11                      State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                  Page Nos. 9 of 29
                                                      10

Police Station along with prosecutrix aged about 9 nine years and PW­3 lodged a report 

in the PS which was reduced into writing in DD register vide DD No.13A and handed 

over   to   SI   Anil   Kumar   for   investigation.     He   proved   true   copy   of   the   said   DD   as 

Ex.PW­4/A.  


18            PW­17 SI Anil Kumar is the IO of the case.  He deposed that on 18.08.2010, 

he was posted at PS Saraswati Vihar and that on that day, he received DD no. 13­A i.e. 

Ex. PW­4/A from the duty officer.  He further deposed that prosecutrix and her maternal 

grand­mother were present at the Police Station and he took the prosecutrix to Bhagwan 

Mahavir Hospital along with lady Ct.  Anita and maternal grand­mother of the prosecutrix 

and got the prosecutrix medically examined at hospital, after which, concerned doctor 

handed over three sealed parcels sealed with the seal of Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital, 

Pitam Pura, as well as sample seal to Ct. Anita and she in turn, handed them over to 

PW­17, who seized the same vide seizure memo Ex. PW­6/A and that after medical 

examination, prosecutrix was brought back to the Police Station and PW­17 handed over 

the parcels, sample seal and MLC of the prosecutrix to the IO SI Poonam Tyagi.

  

19            During his cross­examination, PW­17 deposed that he did not remember the 

exact time, when he had received DD no. 13­A or the time of their departure from PS or 

the time, when they reached the hospital.   He further stated that they remained in the 

hospital for 1/1­1/2 hours and that he did not remember the time, when they had returned 

back to the hospital.  PW­17 denied that he had not taken the prosecutrix to the hospital 

for medical examination on that day. 



    SC No.42/11                         State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                     Page Nos. 10 of 29
                                                   11



20           PW­19 ASI Poonam Tyagi had taken over the investigation of the case after 

the medical examination of the prosecutrix.  She deposed that on 18.08.2010, she was 

posted at PS Maurya Enclave  and was called to PS Saraswati Vihar by the SHO of the 

said PS and accordingly she went there at about 2.30 pm and that at about 3.00 pm, SI 

Anil Kumar, lady Ct. Anita, prosecutrix and her nani reached at PS Saraswati Vihar from 

Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital and further investigation of the case was assigned to PW­19. 

The PW­19 further deposed that SI Anil Kumar handed over medical kit Ex. PW­1/C, 

MLC of the prosecutrix Ex. PW­1/A and the seizure memo of the Evidence Collection Kit 

Ex. PW­6/A and a sample seal to her and also produced prosecutrix and her nani before 

her and that PW­19 made inquiry from Smt. Anita (Nani) of the prosecutrix, recorded her 

statement   vide   Ex   PW­3/A,   whereupon,   she   prepared   rukka   vide   Ex.PW­19/A   and 

handed the same to the duty officer for registration of the case FIR.  The PW­19 further 

deposed that thereafter, she along with prosecutrix, her nani and lady Ct. Anita went to 

the house of the prosecutrix, where, she was handed over one blanket of black colour, 

one top of white colour and one underwear of prosecutrix and that she was told that 

blanket was used while committing the offence/rape by the accused.  Prosecutrix proved 

the seizure memo of the said clothes as Ex. PW­3/B and she also proved the site plan of 

the place of incident as Ex. PW­19/B and stated that same was prepared by her at the 

instance   of   the   complainant.   PW­19   then   deposed   about   the   manner,   in   which,   the 

accused was apprehended at the pointing out of the complainant.  She proved the arrest 

and personal search memo of the accused as Ex. PW­3/C and Ex PW­3/D respectively 

and his disclosure statement as Ex. PW­10/A.   During her further deposition, PW­19 

deposed about the medical examination of the accused at Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital 


    SC No.42/11                      State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                  Page Nos. 11 of 29
                                                    12

through PW­10 Ct.   Ashwani and PW­12 Ct. Suresh vide MLC Ex. PW­8/A and about 

seizing of the pullandas, handed over by the concerned doctor to the said constables 

vide   seizure   memo     Ex.   PW­10/B.     The   PW­19   further   deposed   about   getting   the 

statement of the prosecutrix recorded  u/s 164 Cr.P.C on 21.08.2010 and also obtaining 

the   opinion   regarding   the   age   of   the   prosecutrix   by   getting   her   ossification   test 

conducted.  She proved the statement of prosecutrix u/s 164 Cr.P.C as Ex PW­2/A and 

her ossification report as Ex. PW­16/A, wherein, the age of the prosecutrix was opined to 

be between 10 to 12 years.   PW­19 then   deposed that on 13.09.2010, she got the 

exhibits of this case sent to FSL through Ct. Natwar and that after the FSL result was 

received, she collected the same from MHCM and filed it in the court.   FSL result on 

record was proved as Ex PW­9/A and Ex. PW­9/B respectively.  The case property i.e. 

blanket, top and underwear of the prosecutrix were proved as Ex. P­1 to P­3.

  

21           During her cross­examination, PW­19 stated that she was not aware as to 

from which portion of the house, blanket and other belongings were taken out by the 

complainant before, she handed over the same to her.  PW­19 termed it correct that she 

had not recorded the statement of any neighbour of the prosecutrix.  She also stated that 

she had gone to the house of the prosecutrix only once i.e. 18.08.2010 and thereafter, 

she never visited the house of the prosecutrix and that she had also not recorded the 

statement of Sh. Suraj Pal (Nana) of prosecutrix.
 

22           During her further cross­examination, PW­19 stated that she had been told 

by the Nani of the prosecutrix that at the time of incident, mother of the prosecutrix had 

gone to the market.   However, she admitted that she had not recorded this fact in the 


    SC No.42/11                       State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                   Page Nos. 12 of 29
                                                  13

statement of the complainant.   During her further cross­examination, she further stated 

that on the day of incident, mother of the prosecutrix was in the house looking after one 

year old younger brother of the prosecutrix and despite knowing the fact that mother of 

the  prosecutrix was in  the  house  at  the   time   of incident,  she  still  did  not  record  her 

statement.   The PW­19 termed it correct that she had not asked tenant living in the 

house, whether the accused had come to the spot on the day of incident or not, when 

asked about the dispute between the grand­parents of the prosecutrix and the accused 

over   money transaction,  PW­19  stated  that  she   was not aware   any of  such   dispute. 

PW­19 denied that accused has been falsely implicated in the case.



23           PW­6 Lady Ct. Anita had taken the prosecutrix along with her nani and IO SI 

Anil Kumar to Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital on 18.08.2010 for the medical examination of 

the prosecutrix and deposed regarding the same.   She proved her signatures on the 

seizure memo Ex. PW­6/A, vide which, the samples taken from the prosecutrix were 

seized by the IO. 


24           PW­10   Ct.  Ashwani   Kumar  and  PW­12   Ct.  Suresh   Kumar   had   joined   the 

investigations with  PW­19 ASI Poonam Tyagi on 18.08.2010 and deposed regarding the 

same.   They also deposed about the manner in which, the IO had seized one blanket 

and clothes of the prosecutrix from the house of nani of the prosecutrix and about the 

manner, in which accused was arrested by the IO and was got medically examined at 

Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital. 


25           PW­11 Ct. Natwar Singh deposed that on 13.09.2010,  he took the exhibits of 


    SC No.42/11                     State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                 Page Nos. 13 of 29
                                                        14

the present case, in sealed condition, along with FSL Form   to FSL, Rohini vide RC no. 

144/21/2010  and deposited the same there and on return, he handed over the receipt 

thereof to MHCM.  He further stated that so long as the exhibits remained in his custody, 

same remained intact and were not tampered with by anyone. 



26            PW­21   HC   Vikram  Singh   deposed   that   he   was  working   as  MHCM  at  PS 

Saraswati Vihar on 18.08.2010 and  he proved different entries made by him in register 

no. 19 regarding deposit of exhibits of the present case in Malkhana by the IO as Ex. 

PW­21/A and Ex. PW­21/B respectively.  He further deposed that as per record brought 

by him, exhibits of the present case were sent to FSL through Ct. Natwar Singh by HC 

Ravinder Nath, the then MHCM and later on, said MHCM received the FSL report and 

remnants   of   the   exhibits   and     he   proved   the   different   entries   in   this   regard   as     Ex. 

PW­21/C to Ex. PW­21/E.   


27            PW­7 Smt. Keli is the owner of the house, where the accused was residing. 

She deposed that she had let out one room of her house to Sanjeev and one another 

person, who used to pay her Rs. 1,800/­ per month as rent and that accused Sarvan had 

been residing with them since three months prior to the date of incident and that she 

never issued any receipt to her tenants. 


28            After closing of prosecution evidence statement of accused was     recorded 

u/s 313 CrPC.  The  accused stated that he is innocent and had been falsely implicated 

in the case at the instance of Maternal grand­parents of the prosecutrix. He further stated 

that no such incident as alleged had ever taken place and he was falsely implicated in 


    SC No.42/11                          State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                       Page Nos. 14 of 29
                                                     15

this case at the instance of Nana of the prosecutrix.  He further stated that he and nana 

of   the   prosecutrix   were   doing   work   of   polishing   of   utensils   and   that   nana   of   the 

prosecutrix had borrowed a sum of Rs. 9,000/­ from him, but he was not returning back 

the said amount despite his repeated requests and demands and as such, he was falsely 

implicated  in   the  present   case   to   evade  the   debt.     Accused   wished   to   lead   defence 

evidence and examined DW­1 Sh. Jawahar  and also examined himself as a witness u/s 

315 Cr.P.C to support his above­mentioned contentions. 



29            DW­1 Sh. Jawahar stated that he and accused Sharvan used to reside in the 

same room on rent and that accused Sharvan had given Rs. 9,000/­ to Sh. Suraj Pal 

(Nana of the prosecutrix) and Sh. Suraj Pal was to return the said amount to the accused 

after some time and that whenever, Sharvan used to go to Suraj Pal to take back his 

money, Surajpal used to make excuses and did not return the same and as such, a 

quarrel took place between Suraj Pal and accused.  He further stated that after two days, 

police came and took Sharvan with them. 


30            Accused examined himself u/s 315 Cr.P.C in his defence and reiterated the 

facts/defence as taken by him in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C.   He further stated that 

instead of returning his money, Suraj Pal, nana of the prosecutrix was demanding more 

money from him, but he refused for the same and demanded back his money given 

earlier.   He further stated that on 16.08.2010, he went to the house of Suraj Pal to take 

his money back and that at that time, prosecutrix and her mother were not present and 

as Suraj Pal did not return his money, a quarrel ensued and in the said quarrel, Suraj Pal 

threatened him to implicate in a false case and on return, he narrated all these facts to 


    SC No.42/11                        State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                    Page Nos. 15 of 29
                                                  16

DW­1.  He further stated that on 18.8.10, he was lifted by the police from his house at 

the instance of Suraj Pal and was falsely implicated in the present case. 



31           During his cross­examination by learned Addl. PP, he stated that he had not 

obtained the receipt of the amount given by him to Suraj Pal and that he did not make 

any complaint to the President of RWA as well as to the police regarding non­return of 

his money by Suraj Pal and about his false implication in the present case.  However, he 

denied the suggestion that he had not given the money of Suraj Pal. 



32           Ld. Addl. PP has contended that in view of the testimony of the prosecutrix 

and   her  maternal  grand­mother (Nani), the   prosecution  has succeeded   in  proving  its 

case   against   the   accused   persons   beyond   reasonable   doubt   and   it   is   prayed   that 

accused be convicted and sentenced. On the other hand, ld. Counsel for the accused 

has contended that there are material discrepancies in the testimonies of the witnesses 

and that accused has been falsely implicated in the present case as the accused had 

given a loan of Rs. 9,000/­ to Suraj Pal,   nana of the prosecutrix and when Suraj Pal 

failed to return the same amount to the accused, despite repeated requests, a quarrel 

took place between Suraj Pal and the accused regarding return of the said money and 

thereafter, the accused was falsely implicated in the present case.  It is further submitted 

that accused has not committed the alleged offence and as such, it is prayed that he be 

acquitted of the charged offence. 


33           I have heard the arguments and also perused the record carefully.




    SC No.42/11                      State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                 Page Nos. 16 of 29
                                                  17

34           In the present case the victim child is uneducated and there is no document 

like birth certificate of her age etc. available on record.  However, the age of victim child 

has   been   proved   to   be   between  10   to   12   years  by  PW­16  Dr.  Shipra   Rampal,   who 

examined X­ray plates of the victim child / prosecutrix on 26.08.2010.  There is nothing 

on record to doubt the medical age of the victim child / prosecutrix as determined by 

PW­16 Dr. Shipra Rampal and hence, prosecution has succeeded in proving the victim 

child / prosecutrix was between 10 to 12 years of age as on the date of incident.  



35           Further the incident in the instant case is alleged to have taken place on 

17.08.2010 between 8:30 PM to 9:00 PM.   The case was registered on 18.08.2010 at 

about 5:00 PM on complaint made by PW­3 Anita, Nani (maternal grandmother) of the 

prosecutrix.   Before registration of the case prosecutrix was taken to hospital for her 

medical examination also.  The statement of the victim child was recorded by IO W/ASI 

Poonam Tyagi u/s.161 CrPC on 18.08.2010 wherein she deposed that,:­



               " Q. Tumhara naam kya hai ?
               Ans. Mera Naam x x x x x  (prosecutrix) hai.
               Q.  Tumhari Umar kitni hai ?
               A.  Meri Umar Karib Nau Saal (9 years) hai.
               Q. Tumhare mummy papa ka kya naam hai ?
               A. Mere Papa ka naam Kapil Kumar or Mummy Ka naam Jyoti hai.

               Q.  Tum kaha rehti ho?
               A.  Me H­Block, Shakurpur me apni maa Jyoti or apne Nana Nani  

               ke sath rehti hu.

    SC No.42/11                      State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                 Page Nos. 17 of 29
                                                   18

              Q.  Kya tum school jati ho?
              A.  Nahi me school nahi jati, me anpad hu.
              Q.   Tum   paiso   ko   pehchanti   ho   jaise   5   rupaiye,   10   rupaiye,   50  

              rupaiye, 100 rupaiye aadi ?
              A.  Ha me paise ko pehchanti hu.
              Q. Kal raat tumhare sath kya hua tha ?
              A. Kal raat hamare ghar mere Nana ka dost Sarvan Kumar aaya  

              tha, jo pehle bhi hamare ghar aata jaata rehta hai.   Weh mujhe  

              apne sath chhaat par le gaya tha, waha jakar usne meri nicker uttar  

              kar, waha apne kapade bhi uttar kar mere sath zabardasti galat  

              kam kiya."


36          The   witness   child   /   prosecutrix   gave   her   statement   u/s.164   CrPC   i.e. 

Ex.PW­2/A before learned MM on 21.08.2010 wherein she deposed that,



               " Mera naam x x x x x (prosecutrix) hai ; mera ek chhota bhai bhi  

               hai, jiska   naam Aryan  hai  ;  me  school  nahi  jati  hu, isliye  mujhe  

               padna nahi aata ; mere papa ki death ek sal pahele ho chuki hai ;  

               uske bad se me Nana - Nani ke pas rehne lagi ; jab me Bhudhwar  

               18 August, 2010 apne ghar me khel rahi thi tab mere Nana ka dost  

               Sarvan Kumar aaya aur bola, "mujhe apne ghar ki chhat to dhikao  

               beta" ; jab me upar chhat par gayi toh whah badatmiji karane laga,  

               waha   zabardasti   mere   kapade   uttarne   laga   aur   jaldi­jaldi   apne  

               kapade bhi uttarne laga aur phir mere sath galat kam kiya ; me  


    SC No.42/11                      State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                    Page Nos. 18 of 29
                                                19

               uske bad rote hue niche aa gayi. "


37          The   aforesaid   statement   of   witness   was   recorded   after   putting   some 

preliminary questions to her to ascertain if she was capable of making a statement. 



            During her examination before the learned Predecessor, as PW­2, the victim 

child / prosecutrix deposed that,



              "I know accused Sharvan Kumar.   He is friend of my Nana. On  

              17.08.2010, I was playing at my residence and was living with my  

              Nana Nani.  My mother also used to stay in the house of my Nana  

              Nani because my father had expired.   When I was playing at the  

              home,   everybody   was   present   in   the   house.     The   accused  

              instigated me "Chaat (roof) Dhika La Beta".  I took the accused on  

              the roof of our house.   On the roof accused removed my clothes  

              and   the   accused   also   removed   his   clothes   and   he   committed  

              sexual intercourse upon me and it was night time.   Thereafter I  

              started weeping and came downwards.   The accused threatened  

              me not to disclose the said incident to any body."


38            During her cross­examination before the learned Predecessor as PW­2 the 

victim child / prosecutrix deposed that,



               "I had not disclosed the fact about committing rape upon me by the  


    SC No.42/11                     State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai               Page Nos. 19 of 29
                                                      20

               accused to anybody prior to today.  We were residing in one room  

               in the said house.  There is one room in the rear portion and one  

               room in the front portion of the said house.   Somebody else was  

               residing   in   the   second   room.     My   mother   had   not   re­married.  

               Today   I   have   deposed   whatever   had   happened   with   me   and  

               nobody had forced me to depose in the Court.   Accused Sarwan  

               was not residing in our neighbourhood.   Accused was residing at  

               H­Block, Shakurpur, Delhi.  The name of my Nana is Suraj Pal and  

               he is doing the work of polishing of steel utensils.   I do not know  

               about the trade of Sarvan Kumar.   The polishing of steel utensils  

               are   done   at the   factory  at  G­Block,  Shakurpur,  Delhi.    Accused  

               Sharvan Kumar used to visit at our residence prior to the incident  

               every Wednesday because it was a holiday of the factory.   It is  

               correct   that   I   had   not   disclosed   about   this   incident   to   my   Nani.  

               When   accused   used   to   come   every   Wednesday,   he   used   to  

               consume   liquor   with   my   Nana   and   sometimes   quarrel   ensued  

               between   them.     On   the   day   of   incident,   no   quarrel   took   place  

               between the accused and my Nana.  The quarrel took place on the  

               previous day of the incident with my Nana.  The quarrel took place  

               because   accused   Sharvan   Kumar   has   said   that,   "Maine   aapko  

               paise de rakhey hai" and due to this my Nana got angry.   
               She   denied   the   suggestion   that   some   other   male   member   has  

               accompanied her on the roof of the house or that the accused had  

               not accompanied her on the roof.  She denied the suggestion that  


    SC No.42/11                        State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                       Page Nos. 20 of 29
                                                    21

                accused has been falsely implicated in the present case as her  

                Nana had borrowed some money from accused or that her Nana  

                was   unable   to   repay   the   said   money.     She   further   denied   the  

                suggestion that she was deposing falsely as per the directions of  

                her Nani."


39           Though   the   victim   child   could   not   elaborate   as   to   what   she   meant   by 

"galatkam", a word used by her to describe the acts of accused, the observations made 

by PW­1, Dr. Yukti Wadhawan, in Ex.PW­1/C i.e. detailed examination kit for victim of 

sexual   abuse   and   her   opinion   that   the   "findings   are   consistent   with   recent   sexual 

intercourse / assault" bring out clearly what the innocent victim meant by said word.  In 

Ex.PW­1/C, the PW­1 observed as under :­

                " Local examination of genital parts :
                A Public hair combing - No pubic /axillary pair present

                B  Hymen

                .  Injury - fresh / recent/old - Hymen intact but inflamed ; small  

                red spots noted on hymen.
                . Type of hymen (Shape - annular / crescent/cribriform/elongated / 

                micro­perforate/septate/sleeve like) - Red inflamed

                .  Hymenal orifice size - small, admitting tip of finger.

                .  Scarring in hymen - no.
                . Posterior wall tear - Redness.


                C. Vagina, Cervix & Uterus 


    SC No.42/11                       State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                    Page Nos. 21 of 29
                                                  22

              i         Labia   Majora   -   Any   swelling,   adhesions,   tears,   edematous, 

              bruises or abrasion

              ii   Labia Minora - Scratch, bruising, fingernail marks tear, infection, 

              and adhesion, B/L tears + nt, not bleeding

              iii   Fourchette - infection, bleeding, tears, Redness + nt

              iv   Vulva  ­ Any injury, infection, bleeding, NA

              v     External opening - Vaginal growth, hypertrophy, pigmentation, 

              smoothness   of   surface,   signs   of   delivery,   episiotomy   scar,   size, 

              discharge if any - N

              vi   Vaginal introitus  ­ Narrow, roomy, old tears - small

              vii    Cervix - Mucus plug, erosions, growth, bleeding, dilation

              viii Uterus  - size, shape, position, any other significant finding like 

              pregnancy - Not seen

              ix  Posterior commissure ­

              x  Fossa navicularis   ­



              D.  Anus (encircle the relevant) Red & inflamed

              .         Dribbling,   bleeding,   mucopurulent   discharge   from   anus, 

              incontinence

              .   Findings in Anal ampulla /Anal rugae (skin fold)/Anal verge

              .  Tags (skin tag after injury or trauma)

              .  Piles (dilation or bulging of the veins around anus)

              .  External sphincter strength / dilation

              .  Tears (shape and extent) vertical tear arnd 0.5 cm


    SC No.42/11                     State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                   Page Nos. 22 of 29
                                                   23

             (   The   observations   tick   marked   or   handwritten   by   the   doctor   in  

Ex.PW­1/C have been typed in bold letters.)



40           The conviction on the sole evidence of a child witness is permissible if such 

witness is found competent to testify and the court after careful scrutiny of its evidence is 

convinced about the quality and reliability of the same.  In case of State of Punjab Vs.  

Gurmit   Singh   &   Ors.   AIR   1996   SC   1393,   the   Supreme   Court   held   that   in   cases 

involving sexual offences, harassment, molestation etc. the court is duty bound to deal 

with such cases with utmost sensitivity.  It was held that:

41           Coming to the law with respect to the testimony of child witness it is settled 


    SC No.42/11                      State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                   Page Nos. 23 of 29
                                                    24

law that in case of  Dattu Ramrao Sakhare Vs. State of Maharashtra (1997) 5 SCC  

341, it was held that,

              "  A  child   witness  if  found   competent  to   depose   to   the   facts  and 

              reliable   one   such   evidence   could   be   the   basis  of   conviction.     In 

              other words even in the absence of oath the evidence of a child 

              witness can be considered under Section 118 of the Evidence Act 

              provided that such witness is able to understand the questions and 

              able   to   give   rational   answers   thereof.     The   evidence   of   a   child 

              witness   and   credibility   thereof   would   depend   upon   the 

              circumstances of each case.   The only precaution which the court 

              should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness 

              is that the witness must be a reliable one and his / her demeanor 

              must be like any other competent witness and there is no likelihood 

              of being tutored."


42          In case of Pancchi Vs. State of U.P., AIR 1998 SC 2726, it was held :­



              "It is not the law that if a witness is a child his evidence shall be 

              rejected, even if it is found reliable.   The law is that evidence if a 

              child   witness   must   be   evaluated  more   carefully  and   with  greater 

              circumspection   because   a   child   is   susceptible   to   be   swayed   by 

              what   others   tell   them   and   this   a   child   witness   is   easy   prey   to 

              tutoring." 



    SC No.42/11                       State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                      Page Nos. 24 of 29
                                                    25

43          The ratio of abovecases is that the testimony of child witnesses is attributed 

the same kind of credibility that it attached to the statement of any other witness if the 

testimony is consistent.  In the present case the prosecutrix has been consistent on the 

material particulars with regard to the incident when she was raped.  That she had injury 

on her hymen labia majora, labia minora, Fourchette and Anus, has been corroborated 

by her medical examination and by the doctor who conducted her examination.   Her 

Nani also substantially corroborated the incidents that occurred prior to and subsequent 

to her rape. 


44          In case of  State of Punjab Vs. Gurmit Singh & Ors. AIR 1996 SC 1393, 

the   Supreme   Court   held   that   in   cases   involving   sexual   offences,   harassment, 

molestation etc. the court is duty bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. 

It was held that:
45             In the present case, the testimony of the child prosecutrix, who was about 

9­10 years of age, is consistent and could not be shaken during the cross­examination. 

The child's act of not informing her relatives on the night of incident itself and her Nani 

and mother not noticing discomfort of child after incident cannot be isolated from the fact 

that the accused had threatened her of dire consequences, in case she revealed about 

the   incident   to   anyone.     She   could   share   her   agony   only,   when   her   Nani   patiently 

inquired from her.


46             Further   in   order   to   prove   the   exclusive   presence   of   accused   with   the 

prosecutrix, at the time of incident, prosecution has examined PW­3 Smt. Anita, Nani 

(maternal grandmother) of the victim child /prosecutrix.  From the testimony of PW­3, as 

briefly   reproduced   foregoing   paras,   it   is   brought   out   that   on   the   day   of   incident   i.e. 

17.08.2010   accused   had   gone   to   house   of grandparents  of  victim  child   /   prosecutrix 

inebriated   (drunken)   condition   and   sought   permission   of   Nana   of   victim   child   / 

prosecutrix to stay overnight and when he was granted said permission with condition 

that he (accused) and Suraj Pal (Nana of victim child / prosecutrix) would sleep on roof, 

the accused asked prosecutrix to show him the roof and thus managing to isolate himself 

with prosecutrix accused unleashed sexual assault upon her.



47             Learned counsel for accused has contended that victim child / prosecutrix is 

a tutored witness and that accused has been falsely implicated in the case due to quarrel 


    SC No.42/11                          State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                       Page Nos. 26 of 29
                                                   27

with Suraj Pal, Nana of victim child / prosecutrix, over return of money which accused 

had lent to him.  She has also referred to inconsistencies in statements made by PW­2 

i.e. victim child / prosecutrix and PW­3 Smt. Anita, Nani of victim child / prosecutrix and 

non joining of the mother and Nana of the victim child / prosecutrix in investigations by 

the Police to contend that version put forth by prosecutrix is not correct and that a false 

case has been planted upon the accused.


48           No doubt there are certain improvement in statements of PW­2 i.e. victim 

child   /   prosecutrix   in   as   much   as   in   her   statement   u/s.164   CrPC   Ex.PW­2/A,   she 

mentioned   the   date   of  incident   as  18.08.2010   and  in   her  statement   before   Court   as 

PW­2, she stated that accused had threatened her not to disclose about the incident to 

anyone.  There are also inconsistencies in statement of PW­2 victim child / prosecutrix 

and PW­3 Smt. Anita, her Nani, since the victim child stated that after the incident she 

came down from the roof crying but PW­3 stated that she did not notice anything as 

victim child / prosecutrix was sleeping quietly at night.   There is further contradiction 

whether a quarrel had at all taken place between accused and the Nana of victim child / 

prosecutrix on the day of the incident, however, these improvements and inconsistencies 

apart, the testimony of victim child / prosecutrix, with relation to the incident of rape is 

convincing, as she has been consistent throughout in describing what the accused did to 

her.  Her narration of incident is as accurate and precise as a 9 - 10 years child of her 

age would normally have.  One can easily understand how the difficult socio­economic 

circumstances of this victim child / prosecutrix made her so vulnerable.  Firstly it brought 

out from record that the father of victim child / prosecutrix had died about a year ago and 

since then she, her one year old brother and mother had started staying with her Nana 


    SC No.42/11                       State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                  Page Nos. 27 of 29
                                                28

and Nani (maternal grandparents).  Secondly, the economic condition of family of victim 

child / prosecutrix was such that her parents did not send her to school and after death 

of her father also she was not sent to school.  Thirdly, the fact that the entire family of 

maternal grandparents of prosecutrix were managing their day to day activities from one 

room, out of two rooms constructed on their 25 sq. yds. plot, and had let out the other 

room to tenants also reflects that economic condition of victim child / prosecutrix was not 

good.  Fourthly the mother of victim child / prosecutrix was working and was also having 

one year old child (brother of victim child / prosecutrix) to look after and hence, could not 

have   given   her much  time.   Fifthly,  the  maternal  grandfather (nana) of  victim  child   / 

prosecutrix was in habit of drinking liquor in the house despite the fact that there were 

two small children, or widow daughter and his own wife in the house.  Lastly the accused 

was a familiar face / visitor to the house of grandparents of victim child / prosecutrix and 

due to this proximity the victim child / prosecutrix trusted him and there was no occasion 

for the victim child / prosecutrix or the other family members i.e. her nana, nani or widow 

mother to suspect accused of any foul play.  All these circumstances made victim child / 

prosecutrix a very vulnerable victim.  For such a child it would be indeed very difficult to 

narrate her traumatic experience to anyone specially if she was threatened, intimidate or 

otherwise filled with a sense of shame, hurt and pain due to the acts of the accused.



49           The fact that the mother and Nana of the victim child / prosecutrix were not 

joined in investigation or cited as witnesses cannot be a ground to discard the cogent 

and convincing testimony of victim child / prosecutrix.  Even otherwise it has been held in 

Abu Thakir & Ors. vs. State, 2010 [2] JCC 1503,  that criminal justice should not be 

made a casualty for the wrongs committed by investigating officer and if the Court is 


    SC No.42/11                    State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                Page Nos. 28 of 29
                                                       29

convinced that the testimony of a witness to the occurrence is true, the Court is free to 

act on it albeit the investigating officer's suspicious role in the case. 



50            Lastly coming to defence taken by accused, that he had loaned a sum of Rs.

9,000/­   to   Nana   of   victim   child   /   prosecutrix   and   when   asked   to   be   repay   the   said 

amount, he was implicated in present case, the same does not inspire much confidence. 

Firstly the DW­1 did not support the defence case of quarrel over the loaned amount and 

stated that he had not seen the quarrel himself but was told about it by the accused. 

Even otherwise it is unbelievable that the grandmother of a girl aged about 9 - 10 years 

would   level   false   allegations   of   rape   against   a   neighbour   simply   of   deter   him   their 

recovering money loaned by him to her husband.  It is also difficult to believe that in such 

an event the mother of the child would not protest at her child being used in this manner 

specially when she herself is a widow and such allegations would not only put reputation 

of the family to stake but also affect the future of the girl child.  

 

51            Considering the totality of facts and circumstances of the case  I am of the 

considered opinion that the prosecution has successfully proved  the guilt of the accused 

Sharvan Kumar Rai on record, beyond the reasonable doubts.  Accordingly, I hold guilty 

accused Sharvan Kumar Rai  for the offences punishable u/s. 376(2)(f) IPC and he is 

convicted accordingly.  

             Accused Sharvan Kumar Rai produced from JC with counsel Ms. Neelam 

Singh, LAC.
             Remaining arguments heard.
             Vide   separate   judgment   announced   today   in   the   open   Court,   accused 

Sharvan Kumar Rai has been convicted u/s.376 (2)(f) IPC.

             Be listed for arguments on the point of sentence on 28.02.2013.



                                                                          (Illa Rawat)
                                                                   Addl. Sessions Judge
                                                                       (North­West)­01
                                                                         Rohini/Delhi
                                                                            26.02.2013
28.02.2013

Present:     Ld. Addl. PP for the State.
             Accused Sharvan Kumar Rai  produced from JC with counsel Ms. Neelam 

Singh, LAC.
             Arguments on the point of sentence heard.
             Be listed for orders on the point of sentence on 04.03.2013.



                                                                          (Illa Rawat)
                                                                   Addl. Sessions Judge
                                                                       (North­West)­01
                                                                         Rohini/Delhi
                                                                         28.02.2013

    SC No.42/11                    State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                   Page Nos. 30 of 29
                                                  31

     IN THE COURT OF MS. ILLA RAWAT  : ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE 
                       (NORTH­WEST)­01, ROHINI : DELHI


(Sessions Case No. 42/11)
Unique ID case No. 02404R0249362010


State        Vs.    Sharvan Kumar Rai
FIR No.    :       314/2010
U/s            :       376(2)(f)/377/376 IPC  
P.S.           :       Saraswati Vihar


05.03.2013

ORDER ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE

            In     the   present   case,   the   convict   -   Sharvan   Kumar   Rai     has     been 

convicted u/s­ 376 (2) (f) IPC. 
            I  have  heard  the  arguments  on  the  point of sentence put forward by 

Ld. Addl. PP  for State and Ld. defence counsel for the convict.



2.          It has been submitted by the Ld.   Addl. PP   that in the present case, 

convict raped a minor girl aged about nine years and  in view of the serious  nature 

of offence, the convict does not deserve any leniency and she prays that maximum 

sentence  prescribed by the law may be imposed upon the convict. 



3.          On the other hand, it has been submitted by the  Ld. Legal Aid counsel 



    SC No.42/11                    State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                  Page Nos. 31 of 29
                                                 32

that the convict­Sharvan Kumar Rai is a married man having three children, out of 

whom, eldest is aged about 10 years and youngest is aged about 6 years and a wife 

to  look  after.   It  is  further stated that  convict  also has responsibility of his old 

parents and that   wife of the convict is uneducated and that convict is only bread 

earner of the family.   It is also submitted that convict belongs to a low strata of 

society and is first time offender and he has been in custody from the date of his 

arrest i.e.18.08.2010.  It is further submitted that convict is not a previous convict 

and is not involved in any other case and she   prays that  a lenient view may be 

taken   in this case and sentence for the period already undergone by him may be 

awarded and  he be given a chance of  rehabilitation. 

4.           I have carefully considered the submissions made by Ld.  Addl. PP  and 

Ld. Legal aid counsel and have carefully gone through the record of the case. 



5.           In the present case, the convict­ Sharvan Kamar Rai  has been convicted 

for committing the offence punishable u/s- 376 (2) (f) IPC.  The convict, who was 

the friend of Nana of the prosecutrix, took her to the roof of the house on the pretext 

"Chaat (roof) Dhika La Beta" and there, he committed sexual intercourse upon her. 

It is a matter of record that the act of convict, though on face of it, is not gruesome, 

but has had far fetched and   irreparable consequences on the life of a minor girl 

child.         The  acts   of   the   convict   can  only  be   concluded  to  be  most  cruel   now 

considering the submissions that he has three children of his own.   As a person 


    SC No.42/11                     State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                 Page Nos. 32 of 29
                                                   33

having children, he ought to have refrained from such a conduct, which has spoiled 

entire life of a young father­less girl child.     The instances of minor girls being 

victim to such nefarious acts and deeds, which transforms their innocent and happy 

lives into a ditch of hell and miseries are on rise and thus, no leniency is called for 

in the matter.   I hereby award rigorous imprisonment of 10 (ten) years along with a 

fine to the tune of Rs. 5,000/­, in default of payment of fine, to further undergo 

simple imprisonment for three month, u/s 376 (2) (f) IPC.

             Benefit u/s 428 Cr.PC be also  given to the convict.
             Coming   now   to   the   aspect   of   compensation   to   the   victim,   who   is   a 

father­less minor girl.   The Hon'ble Apex Court has time and again observed that 

that subordinate Courts trying the offences of sexual assault have the jurisdiction to 

award the compensation to the victims being an offence against the basic human 

right and violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India.   In a case titled as 

Bodhisattwa Gautam vs. Subhra Chakraborty, AIR 1996 SC 922, it has been held by 

Hon'ble Supreme Court that the jurisdiction to pay compensation (interim and final) 

has to be treated to be a part of the over all jurisdiction of the Courts trying the 

offences   of   rape,   which   is   an   offence   against   basic   human   rights   as   also   the 

Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty and Life. 
             Therefore, in order to provide Restorative and Compensatory Justice to 

the victim i.e prosecutrix, I hereby direct the GNCT of Delhi through Principal 

Secretary (Home) to grant compensation to the tune of Rs. 1,00,000/­ (Rs. One lac 

only)   to   the   prosecutrix.     The   said   amount   shall   be   used   for   her   welfare   and 


    SC No.42/11                      State Vs. Sharvan Kumar Rai                  Page Nos. 33 of 29
                                                 34

rehabilitation,   under   the   supervision   of   Welfare   Officer,   so   nominated   by   the 

Government of NCT of Delhi. 
             A copy of this order be sent to the Principal Secretary (Home), GNCT of 

Delhi,   Chief   Secretary,   GNCT   of   Delhi,   Principal   Secretary   (Social   Welfare), 

GNCT of Delhi and Director, Department of Social Welfare (Women and Child 

Development),   GNCT   of   Delhi,   for   information   and   necessary   action   under 

intimation to this Court. 
             The convict is informed that he has a right to prefer an appeal against 

this judgment.   He has been apprised that he cannot afford to engage an advocate, 

he can approach the Legal Aid Cell, functioning in Tihar Jail or write to Secretary, 

Delhi High Court, Legal Services Committee, 34­37, Lawyer Chamber Block, High 

Court of Delhi, New Delhi. 
             Copies of  the judgment and order on the  point of sentence be supplied 

to the convict, free of cost.
             File be consigned to the record room.

