1.          The above named accused has been facing trial for
having committed the offences punishable u/s.342 IPC, u/s.376 IPC
& u/s.506 IPC.
2.          The prosecution case in nutshell is that the accused,
who was a Sub Inspector in Delhi Police at that time, took away
the prosecutrix from her home on 20.4.1998 at about 8.30 a.m.,
kept her confined in a room in P.S. Jaffarpur Kalan till 3 a.m. in the
night and in the meantime committed rape upon her three or four
times. The complainant/prosecutrix submitted a complaint in this
regard in person to DCP South West, New Delhi, on 22.4.1998 but
no action was taken upon the same. Ultimately, the complainant
filed a private complaint before the Ld. Magistrate on 28.4.1998,



SC No.35/13.                                             Page 1 of 26
 on which directions were issued to the police u/s.156(3) Cr.PC to
file its report. Consequently, the FIR u/s.376 IPC was registered
against   the   accused   on   14.8.1998.    However,    after   the
investigation of the case, a final report was filed u/s.173 Cr.PC.
The Ld. Magistrate did not accept the final report and proceeded
to conduct inquiry into the matter. He recorded the statement of
the prosecutrix on 24.7.2006 and thereafter summoned the
accused vide order dated 02.4.2007. Needless to mention here
that the accused challenged the aforesaid summoning order by
way of revision petition first before the Sessions Court and then
before the High Court but did not get any success.
3.         It appears from the record that the case was
thereafter committed to the court of Sessions where charges u/s.
342 IPC, u/s.376 IPC and u/s.506 IPC were framed against the
accused on 30.5.2011. The accused claimed not guilty to the
aforesaid charges and hence trial was held. The prosecution has
examined ten witnesses.     The accused was examined u/s.313
Cr.PC on 23.1.2013 wherein he denied all the incriminating
evidence put to him and claimed innocence.
4.         I have heard Ld. APP for State, Ld. Counsel for the
accused and have perused the entire record.
5.         It was submitted by the Ld. APP that the prosecutrix
has fully supported the case of the prosecution and her testimony
before this court is consistent with her previous statements and
therefore no doubt can be entertained at all in the complicity of
the accused for the offences with which he has been charged. He




SC No.35/13.                                            Page 2 of 26
 submitted that the accused is liable to be convicted.
6.          Ld. Counsel for the accused submitted that there are
material contradictions in the statements of the prosecutrix and
other witnesses examined by the prosecutrix in this case. He also
submitted that there are material inconsistencies between the
deposition of the prosecutrix before this court and her earlier
statements which make her an untruthful witness. He further
submitted that an enquiry was got conducted by Delhi Police on
the complaint of the prosecutrix. The enquiry was conducted by
Sh. Alok Kumar, the then ACP (South-West), who vide his report
dated 19.6.1998 found that there is no truth in the allegations of
the complainant and the same found to be baseless. He also
submitted that no truth was found in the allegations of the
prosecutrix by the investigating officer, who had investigated the
case pursuant to registration of the FIR, also and accordingly he
had submitted a final report. The Ld. Counsel strenuously argued
that the accused has been implicated in this case falsely by the
prosecutrix, who herself and her both sons were involved in
criminal activities in the area.   He prayed for acquittal of the
accused.
7.          As noted herein-above, the FIR in the instant case was
registered pursuant to an order issued by the Ld. Magistrate u/s.
156(3) Cr.PC on the complaint filed by the prosecutrix on
27.4.1998. In the said complaint, the prosecutrix had alleged that
the accused came to their house at 1.30 a.m. in the night on
12.4.1998 and forcibly took away her son Sanjit. Sanjit was kept
in custody in the police station and was not released. Accused




SC No.35/13.                                            Page 3 of 26
 came to her house again on 20.4.98 at 8.30 a.m. and forcibly put
her and her minor daughter Kavita in the police jeep. A neighbour
Jai Karan came to the spot at that very moment and on seeing
him, accused let off the daughter of the prosecutrix and took her
forcibly to the police station, where she was confined in a room.
Another villager Attar Singh also came to the police station and
the   prosecutrix   informed   him   about   the   whole   incident.
Prosecutrix was kept by the accused in his custody till 3 a.m. in
the night and during that time, he raped her three or four times.
The accused threatened her that she would be killed if she
disclosed the incident to anybody. Upon being released, the
complainant informed the higher authorities i.e. Commissioner of
Police, Delhi, Lt. Governor, Delhi, DCP (South-West), ACP Najafgarh
and the Chairman, National Human Rights Commission, about the
incident through telegram, the receipts of which were annexed
with the complaint. The prosecutrix also visited the office of DCP
South West, New Delhi, personally on 22.4.98 and submitted a
written complaint to him. It has been further mentioned in the
complaint that the son of the prosecutrix was released by the
accused on 23.4.98 at 9 p.m.


8.          FIR has been registered on 14.8.98 pursuant to the
order of the Ld. Magistrate and the investigation was entrusted to
Inspector Sarabjit Singh, who, during the course of investigation,
did not find any truth in the allegations of the prosecutrix and
hence submitted a cancellation report.
9.          It is interesting to note here that the IO Inspector
Sarabjit Singh did not find it necessary to record the statements of




SC No.35/13.                                           Page 4 of 26
 the prosecutrix and the witnesses cited by her in her complaint.
He recorded the statements of the then SHO, P.S. Jaffarpur Kalan
and certain police officials, who were posted in the police station
at the relevant time and it is on the basis of those statements, he
concluded that no incident as alleged by the prosecutrix did ever
take place inside the police station. The investigation carried out
by Inspector Sarabjit Singh manifestly appears to be partisan and
name sake with an object to achieve the predecided result. All the
concerned police officials including the investigating officer were
in favour of shielding the accused, their colleague from any
criminal prosecution. Nobody wanted the truth to come out.
Hence a bogus investigation which culminated in the filing of
cancellation report.
10.         The first opportunity for the prosecutrix to narrate her
ordeal was before the Ld. Magistrate on 24.5.2006 when he
recorded her statement after disbelieving the conclusion arrived at
by the investigating officer and contained in the cancellation
report. The said statement of the prosecutrix (Ex.PW1/DA) is as
under :
11.        The next opportunity for the prosecutrix to narrate her
tale of woes was when her statement was recorded by the Enquiry
Officer ACP Alok Kumar. This statement (Ex.PW1/B) is a detailed
one and I find it necessary to reproduce the same hereunder :
12.         The prosecutrix has appeared in this court as PW1.
She did not remember the exact date, month and year of the
incident and stated that it happened about 13 years and 3 months
ago.   She deposed that accused Brahamjit, who was then Sub
Inspector, took her son Sanjit to P.S. Jaffarpur Kalan to interrogate
him in a theft case. At this stage, she deposed that the date was
12th but she did not remember the month and year. Her son was
no released by the accused and on 20th of the same month,
accused again came to her house and forcibly took her and her
daughter in a police gypsy. When the accused was beating and
dragging her and her daughter on road, one of their neighbours
namely Jai Karan asked accused Brahamjit as to why he was
treating them with such cruelty.     Accused Brahamjit, who was
accompanied by a lady police official namely Krishna and two male
police officials threatened Jai Karan also.   Thereafter, they were
taken in a police gypsy but her daughter was released on the way
to the police station. She was taken to the police station and was
confined in a room. Accused had threatened her and beaten her.
In the afternoon, accused committed rape with her. Accused kept
her confined in that room till 3 a.m. in the night and during that
period, he committed rape with her three times. Thereafter, she
was released by the accused and she returned home.               She




SC No.35/13.                                            Page 9 of 26
 approached DCP Najafgarh and told senior police officers, but no
FIR was registered on her complaint and then she filed a complaint
before the Ld. ACMM, Patiala House Courts, which she proved as
Ex.PW1/A.      She proved her statement recorded in the Police
Headquarters during the inquiry proceedings as Ex.PW1/B.
13.         In the cross examination, she denied that there is any
criminal case against her son Sanjit. She admitted that there were
three theft cases pending against her elder son Tejpal, but denied
that both the sons are bad characters of the area.         She also
admitted that an FIR No.870/05 u/s.451/506/34 IPC, P.S. Najafgarh,
has been registered against her sons Sanjit and that is the only
case registered against him. She further deposed that she did not
file a complaint against the police officials when her son Sanjit was
taken on 12.4.98 as she thought that he will be released after
questioning. She deposed that there are houses on both sides of
their house, which is built upon a plot of land measuring 125 sq.
yds. Jai Karan has his fields adjoining the road opposite her house
and he lives in the same village and at some distance away from
her house. Jai Karan knows her for the last 40 years. She was
confronted by the contents of her complaint Ex.PW1/A and her
statement recorded by the Ld. Magistrate Ex.PW1/DA wherein she
has not stated that she and her daughters were given beatings by
accused Brahamjit and other police officials at the time of taking
them away from their house;      Jai Karan had asked the accused
why he was treating them with such cruelty; accused Brahamjit
had threatened Jai Karan also and that her daughter Kavita was
also taken in the police gypsy and was released on the way.
 14.         PW1 further deposed in her cross examination that
they reached police station at 8.30 or 8.45 a.m. At that time, P.S.
Jaffarpur Kalan was in a small building and there were 3/4 rooms
on the right side, 3/4 rooms on the left side and 2/3 rooms on the
backside of the building.     At the entrance, there was DO room
wherein 2 to 3 police officials including one lady were seen by her.
She was taken to the last room on the right side of the police
station. It was third room from the entrance. The room was 10
ft.X10/12 ft. in dimension.    As soon as she was put inside the
room, the door was bolted from inside by accused Brahamjit.
There was a window in that room, but it was also closed by the
accused. After 30 - 45 minutes, accused went out and bolted the
door from outside. The accused returned to the said room after
about one and a half hours and again went out at about 4 p.m. He
again returned to the room after half an hour and went out next
morning at about 3 a.m. Accused Brahamjit raped her for the first
time at about 12 noon or 1 p.m. She was confronted with her
statement Ex.PW1/B, which was recorded during the inquiry
proceedings, wherein she had mentioned that whenever accused
went out of the room, it was just for 1 or 2 minutes only and that
he raped her for the first time at about 10 a.m. She reiterated that
Attar Singh met her in the police station on that day at about 10
a.m. or 11 a.m. She had seen him outside her room from the
broken part of the window of the room. He had come there
because his brother was also in the Lock-Up. She waived to him
by taking out her hand from the broken part and called him near
her room.      She asked him to open the bolt of her room from
outside and     when he tried to open the bolt of the room from
outside, accused Brahamjit came there. Attar Singh talked to her




SC No.35/13.                                          Page 11 of 26
 from outside the room for about 5 minutes. She denied the
suggestion that there was no window in the room of the accused.
At this stage, she stated that Attar Singh met her at about 4 or 5
p.m. and not at 10 a.m. or 11 a.m. According to her, accused
raped her for the third time at about 3 a.m. in the night. She did
not remember if her clothes were torn during the incident. Besides
this, she denied all the suggestions put to her by the Ld. Counsel
for the accused.
15.        I do not see any major or material inconsistency or
contradiction in the aforesaid statements of the prosecutrix. From
the day one, she has been consistently stating that she was
forcibly taken by the accused to the police station, kept confined
in his room therein and was raped by him three times till 3 a.m. in
the night when she was released. Ld. Counsel for the accused has
pointed out that in her statement Ex.PW1/B the prosecutrix has
mentioned that her daughter Kavita was also taken forcibly to the
police station by the accused and she was later on dropped back
home by Const. Sube Singh but she does not say so in her
complaint Ex.PW1/A and in her deposition before this court. He
further pointed out that the prosecutrix in her statement Ex.PW1/B
has mentioned that she was raped by the accused for the first
time at 10 a.m. whereas in her testimony as PW1, she has
mentioned that she was raped by the accused for the first time at
12 noon. He also pointed out that if the incident as disclosed by
the prosecutrix is to be believed, she was raped by the accused
three times and therefore, she must have got semen stains on her
undergarment or the apparels worn on the lower body part but no
such clothes were handed over by her to the police during the




SC No.35/13.                                         Page 12 of 26
 course of investigation. He also relied upon the confronted portion
of her deposition as noted herein-above to submit that no such
incident has in fact, taken place and the prosecutrix is not a
trustworthy witness.
16.         In my opinion, the discrepancies pointed out by the Ld.
Counsel for the accused are of very insignificant nature and do not
militate with the prosecution case in any manner. It has to be kept
in mind while scrutinizing the testimony of the prosecutrix that she
was examined before this court after 13 years of the incident and
it is quite natural that during this time, the minute details of the
incident may have got erased from her mind. Thirteen years time
is too long period to expect a witness to remember all the
minutest details of the incident. Even after being called upon to
depose in the court after such a long time, the prosecutrix has
supported the case of the prosecution in all the material
particulars and nothing contrary to the prosecution case has been
elicited in her cross examination. Court did not expect her to give
a parrot like statement or a tape recorded version of the event.
Minor discrepancies or variations which are immaterial, are bound
to happen when a witness is called upon to depose after a period
of 13 years of the incident.     Such variations, in fact, are the
guarantee of the truthfulness of the witness.
17.         It may be noted here that while scrutinizing the
testimony of prosecutrix in a rape case, Court should not give any
weightage to insignificant discrepancies which are not fatal to the
prosecution case. The courts trying a rape case shoulder a great
responsibility and must deal with such case with utmost




SC No.35/13.                                          Page 13 of 26
 sensitivity. Following observations made by the Supreme Court in
State of Andhra Pradesh vs. Gangula Satyamurthy, JT 1996
(10) SCC 550, are apt in this context :
18.        The Supreme Court has again held in State of
Himachal Pradesh vs. Lekh Raj and another,              AIR 1999
Supreme Court 3916 as under :
19.         So whether or not the daughter of prosecutrix also was
brought to police station has no bearing on the incident of rape
upon prosecutrix. The prosecutrix is admittedly illiterate and was
not wearing a watch. Thus she cannot be expected to tell the
exact time when she was raped by accused for the first time,
whether at 10 a.m. or at 12 noon. So far as not handing over the
clothes to the IO is concerned, it is the fault of the IO and
inefficiency on his part.   Prosecutrix cannot be blamed for this.
She could not have known that the clothes are to be preserved
and handed over to police. It was the duty of the IO to ask for her
clothes, which she was wearing at the time of incident and seize
the same. IO has failed in his duty and not the prosecutrix.
 20.         Ld. Counsel for the accused heavily relied upon the DD
No.15A & 16A dated 20.4.98 as well as upon DD Nos.3A & 5A
dated 21.4.98 recorded in P.S. Jaffarpur Kalan to contend that
accused was not present in the police station for a considerable
period of time on 20/21.4.98 and therefore the version of the
prosecutrix that he was present with her in the room in the police
station gets belied.   DD No.15A mentions that a call regarding
quarrel was received in the police station at 2.50 p.m. on 20.4.98
and the same was handed over to accused SI Brahamjit for
suitable action and DD No.16A mentions that accused Brahamjit
returned to the police station at 4 p.m. on 20.4.98 after attending
DD No.15A. Similarly, DD No.3A mentions that a call regarding
quarrel was received in the police station at 12.55 a.m. in the
night, which was assigned to accused SI Brahamjit for suitable
action and DD No.5A mentions that the accused returned to the
police station at 4.10 a.m. in the night after attending DD No.3A.
It may be mentioned here that there are only handwritten copies
of these Daily Diary entries on record, which also are not attested
by any senior police officer. The original DD register pertaining to
relevant dates has not been got summoned by the accused to
prove   authenticity   and   genuineness   of   these   DD   entries.
Secondly, DD No.15A and DD No.3A do not mention the time when
SI Brahamjit left the police station to attend these two calls.
Accused has not mentioned even a word about these two DD
entries having been marked to him or having been inquired by him
on that day in his statement u/s.313 Cr.PC.      The details of the
quarrel and the action taken by him have not been disclosed by
the accused anywhere in his examination u/s.313 Cr.PC.           The




SC No.35/13.                                            Page 16 of 26
 person i.e. the Duty Officer, who allegedly made these DD entries
has not been examined as a witness in defence. Thus there is no
admissible proof on record regarding authenticity and genuineness
of these DD entries and same cannot be considered at all.
21.            It appears that the contents of the aforesaid DD
entries were made a ground by the Enquiry Officer ACP Alok
Kumar    for    absolving   the   accused   in   enquiry   proceedings.
However, it may be noted here that neither the enquiry report of
ACP Alok Kumar nor the cancellation report filed by the
Investigating Officer in the present case is binding upon this court
and none of these would influence the judgment of this court
which has to be based upon the evidence lead by the parties
before this court.
22.            Next it was submitted by the Ld. Counsel for the
accused that as per the prosecutrix, she was kept confined in a
police station in the last room on the right side of the police
station and her son Sanjit had also stated that he was also kept
confined in the same room and therefore, it is highly improbable
that the prosecutrix could have been raped by the accused when
her son was also present in the same room. The prosecutrix in his
cross examination has stated that she was taken to the last room
on the right side of the police station, which was the third room
from the entrance and was confined there.           However, her son
Sanjit appearing as PW3 has stated in his cross examination that
on the first day of his confinement in the police station i.e.
12.04.98, he was kept in the fourth room from the entrance but it
was not a corner room. He further stated that next morning he




SC No.35/13.                                               Page 17 of 26
 was shifted to another room at the back, which was near Canteen
and bath area and thereafter he was kept in that room for 8 - 10
days. The prosecutrix was brought to the police station on
20.04.98 and on that day her son Sanjit was confined in the room
on the back near kitchen and bath area. Therefore, it cannot be
said that the prosecutrix was also confined in the same room, in
which her son also was present.       PW3 was confronted with his
statement recorded during the enquiry proceedings by ACP Alok
Kumar (Ex.PW3/DA) wherein he had stated that he was confined
continuously only in one room in the police station, which was the
last room on the right side of the same. In this regard, it may be
noted that the statement Ex.PW3/DA of this witness was not
recorded u/s.161 Cr.PC during the course of investigation of this
case but was recorded by Enquiry Officer ACP Alok Kumar during
the enquiry proceedings. Secondly, this statement bears signature
of this witness and therefore in view of provisions of section 162 of
Cr.PC, he could not have been confronted with the same. Thirdly,
if it is to be believed that Sanjit was also confined in only one room
of the police station then as per his deposition, it was the fourth
room from the entrance, whereas as per deposition of the
prosecutrix, she was confined in the third room from the entrance.
This also makes it evident that the mother and the son were not
confined in one and the same room as sought to be conveyed by
the Ld. Counsel for the accused.
23.         Prosecutrix has stated throughout in her statement
that one Jai Karan had reached her house when she was being
taken forcibly by the accused and he tried to intervene but was
abused and threatened by the accused. Jai Karan has been




SC No.35/13.                                           Page 18 of 26
 examined as PW2 by the prosecution before this court. He stated
that on 20.4.98 when he was present in his fields at about 8.30
a.m. he heard some noise coming from the house of prosecutrix
Indrawati and on hearing the noise, he went to her house. He saw
accused Brahamjit (S.I.) beating Indrawati.     Accused was also
dragging Kavita, the daughter of the prosecutrix.       He asked
accused as to why he was doing all this particularly when
Indrawati had no male member present in her house, but the
accused, who was under the influence of liquor at that time
abused him. Therefore, he became scared that he may also be
assaulted and backed off.       According to him, accused was
accompanied by one male Constable and one lady police official at
that time.   He stated that the accused took Indrawati and her
daughter forcibly in the police jeep in his presence. In the cross
examination, he deposed that his house is situated at a distance of
500 yards from the house of Indrawati but his fields are just near
her house. At the time of incident, there was no house adjacent to
the house of Indrawati on either side nor was there was any house
opposite to her house. There was one house at the back side
belonging to one Sarupa. He further stated that he was alone in
the fields at that time and had gone to the house of Indrawati
alone on hearing the noise.    He did not see any other person
standing near the house of Indrawati. He denied that there was
house of Azad and Gugan adjacent to the house of Indrawati at
that time. According to him, his statement was recorded after 10
- 15 days of the incident in the house of Indrawati. He further
stated that he could not see whether the prosecutrix and her
daughter were made to sit on the rear seat or on the front seat of
the gypsy as he was scared of the accused and was standing at a




SC No.35/13.                                         Page 19 of 26
 distance of 50 yards from the said gypsy. From the house of the
prosecutrix the gypsy was driven towards P.S. Jaffapur. He was
confronted with his previous statement Ex.PW2/DA wherein it is
not stated that the accused took the prosecutrix and her daughter
towards police station. He added that he cannot say what actually
was written in his said statement as he is illiterate and the said
statement was not read over to him.
24.            The aforesaid witness PW2 seems to be a genuine and
truthful witness. There does not appear to any iota of falsehood in
his deposition. There is nothing in his testimony to suggest that
he was not present near the house of the prosecutrix at the
relevant time.     His presence near the house of the prosecutrix
cannot be doubted as his fields were adjacent to the house of the
prosecutrix and it is not uncommon for a farmer to be present in
his fields in the morning time. Moreover, ACP Alok Kumar, who has
conducted departmental enquiry against the accused has also
placed reliance upon the statement of this witness Ex.PW2/DA in
coming to the conclusion that the accused had went to village
Kharkari Rond on 20.4.98 and had abused the prosecutrix and
misbehaved with her. In my opinion also, the deposition of PW2
fully   corroborates   and   complements   the   testimony   of   the
prosecutrix.
25.            Another witness PW8 has also been examined by the
prosecution, who states that she was present in the courtyard of
the house of the prosecutrix when some police persons arrived,
pulled up Kavita and made her to sit in the gypsy. She further
stated that when the prosecutrix Indrawati objected to the same,




SC No.35/13.                                          Page 20 of 26
 they gave beatings to her and made her also to sit in the aforesaid
gypsy. I feel reluctant to accept the testimony of this witness as
her presence at the house of the prosecutrix has not been
mentioned either by the prosecutrix herself or by PW2 Jai Karan.
She does not seem to be a reliable witness and therefore her
testimony is discarded.
26.         The Ld. Counsel for the accused vehemently argued
that since the prosecution has not produced Kavita, the daughter
of the prosecutrix, as a witness, her non examination creates
doubt in the version of the incident given by the prosecutrix and
therefore the prosecution case becomes doubtful and the accused
is liable to be acquitted. I do not agree to the submissions of Ld.
Counsel. Kavita is not the eye witness to the confinement & rape
of her mother in police station. She was not confined in the police
station alongwith her mother. Therefore, her non-examination as
witness before this court has no bearing on the prosecution case.
In this regard, it may also be noted that the statement of the
prosecutrix if found to be worthy of credence and reliable requires
no corroboration and the court may convict the accused on the
basis of her sole testimony. A prosecutrix of sex offence cannot
be put on par with an accomplice. She is in fact, a victim of crime.
The Evidence Act nowhere says that her evidence cannot be
accepted unless it is corroborated in material particulars. She is
undoubtedly a competent witness u/s.118 of the Evidence Act and
her evidence must receive the same weight as it attached to an
injured in case of physical violence.   Same degree of care and
caution must attach to the evaluation of her evidence as in the
case of an injured complainant or witness and no more. In cases




SC No.35/13.                                          Page 21 of 26
 involving sexual harassment, molestation etc. the court is duty
bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. Minor
contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statements of
the prosecutrix should not be a ground for throwing out otherwise
reliable prosecution case. While evaluating evidence, the court
must remain alive to the fact that in case of a rape, no self
respecting woman would come forward to the court just to make a
humiliating statement against her honour.
27.         In State of Orissa vs. Thakara Besra and another,
AIR 2002 SC 1963, the Supreme Court held that the rape is not
merely a physical assault rather it often distracts the whole
personality of the victim. The rapist degrades the soul of the
victim.   Therefore   testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   must   be
appreciated as in the background of the entire case and in such
cases non examination of the other witnesses may not be a
serious infirmity in the prosecution case particularly where the
witness had not seen commission of offence.
28.         In State of Himachan Pradesh vs. Raghbir Singh,
1993 (2) SCC 622, the Supreme Court held that there is no legal
compulsion to look for any other evidence to corroborate the
evidence of prosecutrix before recording an order of conviction.
Evidence has to be weighed and not counted. Conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix if her evidence
inspires confidence and there is absence of circumstances which
militate against her veracity.
29.         In the instance case, I see no reason to disbelieve the




SC No.35/13.                                          Page 22 of 26
 version of the prosecutrix.    She has described in detail the
inhuman and savage manner in which she was taken to the police
station by the accused and ravished in a room in the police
station. Her testimony inspires confidence and is fully trustworthy
and reliable. Besides that, her deposition stands corroborated in
some particulars by the deposition of PW2 also. It may be noted
here that the prosecutrix had mentioned in her statement that
whilst she was confined in a room in the police station by the
accused, she saw a villager Attar Singh in the police station, whom
she called and narrated her ordeal to him. Attar Singh was about
to open the door of the room but unfortunately the accused
reached there at the same time and abused him. Attar Singh was
therefore a star witness for the prosecution to corroborate the
version of the prosecutrix regarding her presence in the police
station. However, his brother informed the court that Attar Singh
has become mentally unsound and is not in a position to depose
before the court. The statement of Attar Singh's brother and ASI
Karan singh were recorded in this regard and on the basis of those
statements, Ld.APP dropped PW Attar Singh.
30.        However, even in the absence of evidence of the
aforesaid Attar Singh, the prosecution has succeeded in proving
that accused had brought the prosecutrix forcibly to the police
station on 20.4.98, confined her in a room till 3 a.m. in the night
and committed rape upon her two or three times during that
period. It is also proved that the accused threatened the
prosecutrix that in case she disclosed the incident to anybody, he
would kill her sons and would subject her daughter Kavita also to
the same treatment.
 31.        The Ld. Counsel for the accused made efforts to
convince the court that the prosecutrix and her two sons have
criminal background, have been involved in a host of criminal
cases and had implicated the accused falsely in this case so that
the police would remain away from them and would not take any
action against them for their criminal activities. The submissions
of the Ld. Counsel in this regard are sans any merit. No evidence
has been lead by the accused to prove the criminal antecedents of
the prosecutrix and her two sons.    Only suggestions have been
given to the prosecutrix in this regard, which she denied. However,
she admitted that there were three theft cases pending against
her elder son Tejpal and her younger son Sanjit was involved in
case FIR No.870/05 u/s.451/506/34 IPC. Merely because the name
of a person figures in the FIR does not make him a criminal
because of the universally accepted legal dogma that every
accused is to be treated as an innocent unless proved guilty in the
court of law. There is nothing on record to suggest that Tejpal and
Sanjit, the sons of prosecutrix, were convicted in any of the
criminal cases and had suffered sentence. Be that as it may, there
is nothing on record to show that the prosecutrix herself was
involved in a criminal cases. On the other hand, it is also
established from the record that son of the prosecutrix had been
taken away by the accused from his home on 12.4.98 on suspicion
basis and had been kept under illegal confinement in the police
station till 23.4.98. The accused has, therefore, committed the
offence u/s.342 IPC vis-a-vis Sanjit also but since no charge has
been framed in this regard against the accused, I do not find it
appropriate to say anything more.
 32.         It is manifest that the accused in collusion with other
police officials of P.S. Jaffarpur Kalan had unleashed a reign of
terror upon the family of the prosecutrix. Her son was lifted on
12.4.98 and kept in illegal custody in the police station. She was
lifted by the accused in the morning of 20.4.98, confined illegally
in the police station and raped there. Thereafter whole police
department acted in concert with the accused in further
tormenting her. Her complaints were ignored by the SHO as well
as higher police officers including the concerned DCP. The FIR was
compellingly registered upon the directions of Ld. Magistrate u/s.
156(3)   Cr.PC.    However,    the   investigating   officer   had    a
predetermined result of the investigation in his mind.           The
investigation was absolutely sham, bogus and moonshine.              No
effective measures were taken by investigating officer to get the
truth of the matter.    He did not record the statement of the
prosecutrix and her children. He did not seize the clothes of the
prosecutrix which she was wearing at the time of incident. He did
not get the prosecutrix medically examined. He did not prepare a
site plan of the spot of incident i.e. the room in which the
prosecutrix alleged that she had been raped by the accused. He
simply recorded the statements of certain police officials posted in
P.S. Jaffarpur Kalan at that time and concluded that no such
incident as alleged by the prosecutrix has taken place and filed a
closure report. The enquiry officer ACP Alok Kumar, who conducted
the departmental enquiry against the accused was candid enough
to record that the accused had visited the residence of the
prosecutrix on 20.4.98, abused her and misbehaved with her but
with the anxiety to shield his subordinate officer i.e. accused, in




SC No.35/13.                                           Page 25 of 26
 his mind, he took note of some minor discrepancies in the
statements of the prosecutrix, her son Sanjit and Attar Singh to
say that the proseuctrix was neither detained illegally in the police
station nor raped by the accused.
33.         Faced with such a situation, the prosecutrix, a helpless
and lonely widow was pitted against the whole police department.
It would have required intense courage for her to continue struggle
against the whole police department and fight for justice to her.
The atrocity committed by the accused would not have seen the
light of the day in case the prosecutrix had not filed the complaint
before the Ld. Magistrate, upon which the proceedings continued.
It is not an easy thing to level false allegations regarding such a
heinous offence against a police officer and the prosecutrix would
not have continued the battle up to this point, where the case is at
present, had she in fact not been ravished by the accused inside
the police station.
34.         From the evidence on record as discussed herein-
above, it is manifest that the prosecution has been successful in
proving the charges against the accused. The accused is,
therefore, convicted of having committed the offences punishable
u/s.342 IPC, u/s.376 IPC and u/s.506 IPC.
