      1.                           The   brief   facts   of   the   prosecution   case   are   that   on 

            09.09.2011 SI Ravi Kumar received DD No.19A of PS - Kanjhawala 

            and DD No.26A of PS Nangloi, regarding rape with a 10 year old girl 

            since one year by her relatives, resident of Meer Vihar, Aman Vihar. 


STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 1 of  40
                                                                        2

            SI Ravi Kumar took the Prosecutrix (hereinafter name of prosecutrix 

            is referred to as "J") her maternal grand parents (nana and nani) to 

            SGM   Hospital   where   "J"   was   medically   examined   vide   MLC   No.

            13867.   Thereafter   SI   recorded   the   statement   of   the   "J".   In   her 
                                                                                                 th
            statement "J"  stated:­  "She is studying in 4  class and since three­

            four days she is living in her maternal grand parents house situated 

            in village Barola, Jafarabad. Her father had already died. She has 

            three sisters including herself, her both elder sister were residing at 

            her maternal grand parents house. About three years ago, she was 

            residing in the house of her Fufi namely Naseem. Her fufi has four 

            sons and out of them three elder sons namely are Aashik, Aslam 

            and Afzal. Around one year ago all the said three sons of her Fufi 

            had forcibly done wrong act with her, whenever her Fufa and Fufi 

            were not at the house. All the three sons of her Fufa & Fufi  used to 

            do forcibly wrong act with her whenever no body is present at house 

            and they also threatened to beat her if she complained to anyone. 

            She several times told the said fact to her Fufi, but she scolded her. 

            Around one month back during the month of Ramzaan her cousin 

            brother   (son   of   her   Tau)   namely   Bablu   brought   her   to   the   village 

            Rohana and around 3­4 days ago she had come to the house of her 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 2 of  40
                                                                        3

            maternal grand father (Nana & Nani) at village Barola and there she 

            told the fact about wrong act done by the sons of her fufa & fufi".

      2.                           On the basis of said statement SI Ravi Kumar prepared 

            the rukka and got registered the present case U/S. 376/34 IPC. He 

            arrested all the three accused persons Aashik, Aslam and Afzal and 

            produced   "J"   before   concerned   ld.   MM.     Ld.   MM   recorded   her 

            statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C.   SI Ravi Kumar recorded the 

            statement   of   the   witnesses.   He   prepared   the   site   plan.   Doctor 

            handed over to him exhibits which he seized. Later on investigation 

            was assigned to SI Rajesh Kumar.     SI Rajesh Kumar sent all the 

            exhibits to the FSL and thereafter filed the challan in the court under 

            Section 376/34 IPC and all the accused persons were put to trial.

      3.                             After   compliance   of   Section   207   Code   of   Criminal 

            Procedur   the   case   was   committed   to   the   court   of   Sessions   and 

            therefore assigned to this court for trial in accordance with law.

      4.                           Vide   order   dated   09.12.2011,   all   three   accused 

            individually   charged   under   Section   376   (2)   (f)   IPC   to   which   they 

            pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
      5.                           In order to prove its case prosecution examined as many 

            as 14 witnesses. 


STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 3 of  40
                                                                        4

            PW1 "J" is the prosecutrix, 

            PW2 Mumtaz, maternal grand mother(naani) of the "J", 

            PW3  Mohd Nizamuddin, maternal grand father (Naana)  of "J", 

            PW4 SI Ashwini is duty office and he  proved FIR as Ex.PW4/A. He 

            also proved the endorsement on the rukka as Ex.PW4/B and he also 

            proved  DD No.19A a as Ex.PW4/C. 
            PW5 Sunil Gupta is the then MM, statement of prosecutrix u/s. 164 

            Cr.P.C. as Ex.PW1/B. 
            PW6 Ct. Sumit deposed that on 29.9.2011 he took the exhibited to 

            the FSL vide RC No.164/RC/11. 
            PW7 Dr. Rajesh deposed that on 09.09.2011 he examined "J" and 

            proved her MLC Ex.PW7/A.  
            PW8 HC Pradeep is another duty officer, he proved the DD No.26A 

            Ex.PW4/D. 
                                                                        nd
            PW9 SI Rajesh Kumar is the 2  IO of the case and he has proved 

            the FSL Report as Ex.PW9/A and Ex.PW9/B

            PW10 SI Satish Kumar deposed that on 09.09.2011 he was posted 

            as SI PS Nangloi, and brought the "J" to the PS Kanjhawala and 

            produced her before the Duty Officer of PS­Kanjhawala and handed 

            over DD No.26 of PS Nangloi. 


STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 4 of  40
                                                                        5

            PW11 SI Ravi Kumar is the first IO. 
            PW12  Dr. Meenakshi Bansal is Senior Resident Gynae. She proved 

            the finding of the Dr. Puja given on the MLC as Ex.PW12/A. 

            PW13 Dr. Binay Kumar  MLC of accused Aslam, Aashiq and Aashiq 

            and   proved   their   as   Ex.PW13/A,   Ex.PW13/B   and   Ex.PW13/C 

            respectively. 
            PW14 W Ct. Suman had participate in the investigation with the IO.

      6.                           The   main   witness   of   the   prosecution   case   is   the 

            prosecutrix "J" who was examined as PW­1. In her testimony "J" has 

            deposed that, her father had died before her birth. When she was 

            very   young   her   mother   had   left   her   as   her   mother   remarried. 

            Therefore, she started living with her maternal grand parents along 

            with her two other sisters. She further testified that when she was 

            running in six years, her fufi Naseem had come to her grant parents 

            house at Meer Vihar, Delhi. After about 2­3 days of bringing her to 

            Delhi, the sons of her fufi namely Afzal, Aslam and Ashiq started 

            raping   her.   She   identified   all   the   accused   persons   correctly.   She 

            further testified that when she was sleeping in the room with all other 

            family members, they took her to the roof of the said house where 

            accused persons  put cloth on her mouth and threatened  her with 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 5 of  40
                                                                        6

            knife and had sexual intercourse with her (woh sab kaam kiya Jo 

            mian bibi karte hain).  She further deposed that they continued to do 

            same things regularly almost for four years.   She further deposed 

            that in between she made complaint to her fufi 2­3 times but her fufi 

            did not pay any attention to it rather she scolded her and asked her 

            not to told the same to anyone.  "J" further testified that she warned 

            the accused persons that she would tell the said facts to the police, 

            but  they  said that  nothing  will  happen  (kuch no  hoga).  When  her 

            Nana came to attend the marriage of the daughter of her fufi namely 

            Rani, at that time accused persons used to encircled her so that, she 

            could not tell about their acts to her Nana.   She further stated that 

            one day some years ago her uncle's (tau) son Babloo came to her 

            Fufi's house and with him she went to her uncle's house in Rohini 

            and started living with them. After sometimes her fufi made a call to 

            her Nana house to send her back, but she refused as all the accused 

            persons used to commit sexual intercourse (galat kaam) with her. 

            After two days of receiving the said phone, she told her elder sister 

            namely Zeba and Zeenat about the entire incident and they told the 

            said fact to her mausi (Maternal Aunt) and they told the said facts to 

            their Nana. Then her nana asked her what has happened and she 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 6 of  40
                                                                        7

            told the entire incident to her nana. Her nana nani came to Delhi and 

            made   a   complaint   to   the   police   in   Delhi.   Police   recorded   her 

            statement which is Ex.PW1/A. She further stated that she also gave 

            statement   before   a   Judge   and   said   statement   is   Ex.PW1/B   and 

            bears her signatures at point A.
                                   In her cross examination she denied the suggestion that 

            she was deposing falsely at the instance of her nana and nani. She 

            had also stated that she told the incident to her grand mother (Dadi) 

            but her Dadi told that what she could do. She further stated that she 

            told to her fufi but her fufi did not pay any heed to it. She admitted 

            that   she   did   not   send   any   letter   to   her   Nana­Nani   as   accused 

            persons did not allow her to do that. She stated that when they used 

            to take her on roof they also offered her money and later on when 

            she came to know that their act is illegal thing then she resisted but 

            they kept cloth on her mouth and also threatened her after putting 

            knife on her. She further stated that all the three accused persons 

            offered money  for  doing said act. She used to study  in school  in 

            Delhi   and  was   in   fourth   class.  She   did   not   tell   any   of   her   school 

            friends  about the galat kaam of the  accused persons  as  she has 

            apprehension that she will be beaten by the accused persons. 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 7 of  40
                                                                        8
      7.                           PW2 Smt. Mumtaz had testified that  Saira Bano is her 

            daughter.  "J" is the daughter of Saira Bano. Husband of Saira Bano 

            namely Rafik Mohd had expired about 7/8 years ago, before the birth 

            of "J". Saira Bano had again married and her three daughters Zeba, 

            Jeenat and "J" were residing at our house at Barola. Three years 

            back "J" was taken by her Fufa Nissar Ahmad (husband of Naseem 

            Bano) to Delhi at their residence. He told that since he had sons, 

            therefore, one of the daughter of Saira Bano be given to him. They 

            will treat her as their daughter. Thereafter, "J" started residing with 

            them for about three years.   About four/five months back during the 

            month of Ramzan, Noor Jahan the younger Fufi brought "J" to her 

            house. At that time she was ill and was having cough and fever and 

            she was not taking proper meal and she was very disturbed. Then 

            they inquired from her about her condition, then "J" told to them that 

            accused Aslam, Akram and Ashik had committed rape with her. 

                                   In   her   cross   examination   she   stated   that,   three   years 

            back   Nisar   Ahmad   came   at   their   house   and   took   "J"   with   the 

            assurance that he will keep "J" in good condition, will provide proper 

            education and get her married at proper stage. J had come to their 

            house in the month of Ramzan from the house of her Dadi.   They 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 8 of  40
                                                                        9

            brought   "J"   to   Delhi   and   met   with   the   police   and   police   recorded 

            statement   of   "J"     and   also   took   her   to   the   hospital   for   medical 

            examination.  "J" was also taken before the Magistrate for recording 

            her statement. Her husband used to visit the house of Naseem Bano 

            from time to time, but, "J" did not make any complaint to him. They 

            took "J" to doctor, when she returned back at their house. The father 

            of "J" was not having any property in his name.  She used to visit to 

            meet "J" when she was residing at the house of her bua. At that time 

            she had not disclosed anything to her.   They had taken "J" to the 

            doctor when she came to our house.  She does not know the name 

            of that doctor but his clinic is near their house. First of all "J" narrated 

            the incident to her nana.   "J" has also told her that she had also 

            narrated the incident to her dadi.  She had called her dadi to inquire 

            about the fact but she did not come. She admitted the suggestion 

            that "J" had gone to the house of Noor Jahan (other bua) from the 

            house of her dadi.  She denied the suggestion that "J" had stayed at 

            the house of Noor Jahan for about one and half month. She had 

            brought "J" at Delhi after about 8 days when she disclosed above 

            facts to her.  Her husband was also with her when they had gone to 

            PS.   She admitted that "J's" father was having a house.   She had 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 9 of  40
                                                                       10

            never   visited   the   house   of   Naseema   Bua   of   "J".   She   denied   the 

            suggestion   that   one   Mamta   and   Anita   were   also   residing   at   the 

            house of Nasim or that "J" had told her that she had also narrated 

            about the incident to her teacher and neighbour.  She had not made 

            any inquiry from them. She denied the suggestion that since she was 

            aware that father of "J" was having immovable property, that is why 

            she had falsely implicated the accused persons to grab the same.

      8.                           PW3   Mohd   Nizamuddin   is   the   maternal   grand   father 

            (Nana)   of   the   "J".   He   deposed   that   he   has  three   sons   and   three 

            daughters.  Saira Bano is his one of the daughter.  She was married 

            to Mohd. Rafiq in the year 1995 and she was having three daughters 

            from  the said  wedlock.    Mohd.  Rafiq  expired  in the  year  2003 or 

            2004.   In   the   year   2006­07   Saira   Bano   got   married   with   Raju.   All 

            three daughters of Saira Bano remained with him. About 3­3 ½ years 

            back fufi of "J" namely Nasim came at their house along with her 

            husband Nisar and they took "J" to Delhi Meer Vihar at their home. 

            He had conversation with "J" on phone while she was residing with 

            her   fufi   and   she   was   weeping   on   the   phone   but   they   do   not 

            understand why she was weeping.  4­5 months back "J" was taken 

            to her parental house situated at Rohna, Singhpur, District Aligarh to 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 10 of  40
                                                                       11

            meet her grant mother by Babloo S/o her Tau.  Thereafter, after one 

            month,   on   the   occasion   of   meethi   Id   in   the   year   2011,   "J"   was 

            brought at their   house Barola.   They found "J" was not in a good 

            condition   and   she   was   not   talking   with   anyone   and   found   her 

            depressed.   "J" told all the facts to her sisters and thereafter to his 

            wife and they told all the facts to him. Thereafter he asked "J" what 

            has happened to her.  "J"  told him that sons of her fufi namely Asif, 

            Aslam   and   Afzal   put   clothes   in   her   mouth   and   committed   sexual 

            intercourse with her since many days and months.   "J" further told 

            that she had  made complaint to her fufi Naseema but she also gave 

            beatings to her and threatened her not to told these types of facts to 

            anyone. He was shocked after hearing these facts from the "J".  He 

            contacted SSP of Aligarh but he told him that incident took place at 

            Delhi so he has to make complaint at Delhi. Thereafter, he along 

            with his wife Mumtaz and "J" came at Delhi and contacted the police. 

            Police   examined   "J"   and   recorded   her   statement   vide  ExPW1/A. 

            Police   also   took   "J"   to   SGM   Hospital,   Mangolpuri,   Delhi   and   her 

            medical examination was conducted there.   Police also took "J" to 

            Rohini   Court,   Delhi   and   her   statement   was   recorded   before   a 

            Magistrate.   Accused Ashiq, Aslam and Afjal were arrested by the 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 11 of  40
                                                                       12

            police. He proved arrest memos of accused Aashiq as  ExPW3/A, 

            accused Aslam as ExPW3/C and accused Afzal as ExPW3/E.   He 

            further deposed that   the birth of "J" was taken place in the year 

            2002 and stated that "J" is now aged about 11 years.  

                                   In his cross examination he stated that the two of his 

            grand   daughters   are   twins   and   their   age   is   14   years.   Her   grand 

            daughter "J" started living with her Bua (fufi) about three years ago. 

            At that time she was studying. He twice visited the house of fufi of 

            "J". No other person of his family had visited the house of fufi of "J". 

            He admitted that he used to talk with "J" on phone occasionally. "J" 

            had never told him about the galat kaam by the accused persons on 

            phone. The father of "J" was not having any property, however, her 

            grand father was having 2 bigha of land. "J" had come to his house 

            with her cousin brother (Tau's son). "J" had told about the incident of 

            sexual   intercourse   by   the   accused   persons   to   her   paternal   grand 

            mother (Dadi) first. The paternal grand mother of "J" had not told the 

            said fact to us. During those period when "J" was  residing in the 

            house of her Fufi, she never visited to our house. The "J" had gone 

            to the house of her Tau (Paternal uncle) from the house of her Fufi 

            and there she resided about a month and thereafter, her Tau's son 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 12 of  40
                                                                       13

            brought her to our house. After two days of coming to know about 

            the incident, they reported the matter to the police. In between he 

            had not talked with the "J's" Fufa and Fufi. He denied the suggestion 

            that no sexual intercourse was committed with "J" by the accused 

            persons in her Fufi's house or that since he want to call back his 

            maternal grand daughter "J", but same was refused by her Fufa and 

            Fufi that is why accused persons have been falsely implicated in this 

            case or that he  made a false complaint to the police.  

      9.                           PW11  SI  Ravi  Kumar  is  the   first  IO  of  the   case.    He 

            deposed that on 09.09.2011 he was posted as SI and on that day at 

            about 7pm, he received DD No.26A of PS Nangloi and DD No.19A 

            of   PS   Kanjhawala   from   the   duty   officer   and   duty   officer   also 

            produced   "J"   and   her   maternal   grand   parents.   He   made   initial 

            interrogation   from   the   "J".   Thereafter   he   along   with   W/Ct.   Suman 

            took the "J" to the SGM Hospital, where "J" was medically examined. 

            Doctor also handed over to him one envelop, which was seized vide 

            memo Ex.PW11/A. He recorded the statement of the "J" Ex.PW1/A 

            and   prepared   rukka   Ex.PW11/B   at   about   1.30am   (midnight)   and 

            gave to the duty officer to register the FIR. He further stated  that on 

            10.09.2011 "J" along with her maternal grand parents were called at 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 13 of  40
                                                                       14

            C­1/38, Meer Vihar and at the instance of complainant prepared the 

            site plan Ex.PW11/C and arrested all the three accused persons at 

            her   instance.     On   12.09.2012   he   had   filed   an   application   for 

            recording the statement of "J" u/s. 164 Cr.P.C. and her statement 

            was recorded and received copy of the statement on his application 

            Ex.PW11/"J". He also collected the photocopy of the school leaving 

            certificate of the "J", which is seized vide memo Ex.PW11/K. 

                                   In   his   cross   examination   he   stated   that   PSI   Satish 

            handed over to him DD Entry. "J" and her maternal grand parents 

            came to the PS at about 7pm. He further stated that he cannot say 

            why he has not recorded statement of Aunt, parental grand mother 

            (dadi) and Parental uncle (Tau) of "J". He further stated that Gyne 

            doctor had examined the "J" at about 12/12.30 am (night) and she 

            was examined for about four hours and doctor handed over him one 

            envelop and one sample seal. He further stated that he arrested the 

            accused persons Aasif at 3pm, Aslam at about 3.20pm and accused 

            Afzal at about 3.45pm   in the presence of "J" and her Nana­Naani 

            and Ct. Mahesh. He admitted that the statement of "J" was recorded 

            u/s.164 Cr.P.C.  He further admitted that when statement of the "J" 

            was recorded u/s. 164 Cr.P.C. she came with her Nana­Naani. He 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 14 of  40
                                                                       15

            further deposed that he did not inquire about the properties left by 

            the father.
      10.                          In   their   statement   u/s.   313   Cr.P.C.   all   the   accused 

            persons have denied all the incriminating evidence put to them and 

            they   specifically   denied   of   committing   rape   with   "J".   They   further 

            stated that "J" was under the influence of her maternal grand parents 

            and there was also some property disputes and her maternal grand 

            parents   went   to   bring   back   the   "J",   who   was   residing   with   their 

            parents and they were not agreed to it.
      11.                          In support of their defence they have examined as many 

            as four defence witnesses. DW1 Anita had stated that she along with 

            her sister reside in the house of accused from 2008 to 2011, as there 

            was  nobody  to look  after  them in their house as  her mother was 

            convicted in a case u/s.304IPC. "J" also used to reside in the said 

            house. After six months "J" started residing there. "J" was admitted 

            in   the   school,   she   was   never   ill   treated   in   any   manner   in   her 

            presence   and   "J"   had   never   complained   anything   against   the 

            accused persons. She further stated that there were two rooms in 

            the   house   where   they   were   residing.   Accused   persons   and   his 

            brother used to sleep in the outer side room whereas she, her sister, 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 15 of  40
                                                                       16

            "J" and her Bua used to sleep in the inner room. She further stated 

            that "J" remained in the said house, she never fallen ill. "J"'s grant 

            parents used to visit in the house and "J" used to talk with them on 

            hone. Accused persons has always treated the "J" as their sister. "J" 

            had   gone   with   the   Babloo   who   is   cousin   (Mama's   son)   of   the 

            accused persons on 02.07.2011 to the house of her grandmother 

            (dadi)   and   thereafter   "J"   did   not   return   back.   "J"   was   very   happy 

            when   she   was   going   to   her   grand   parents   home.   In   her   cross 

            examination she stated that she had talking terms with the "J" and 

            "J" used to indulge in household work. She denied the suggestion 

            that accused persons used to take the "J" on the roof in the night 

            time and after threatening her with knife and putting clothes in her 

            mouth they raped her many times. She also denied the suggestion 

            that "J" has complained about raping  by the accused persons to her 

            Fufi, but Naseema Khatoon did not give her any active assistance 

            and as such accused persons keep on raping the "J" many months 

            while she was residing in the house. She denied the suggestion that 

            she is deposing falsely against the accused persons as she had no 

            good   relations   with   the   accused   persons.   She   further   denied   the 

            suggestion "J" remained dim and dull in the house most of the time, 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 16 of  40
                                                                       17

            because of the doing wrong act upon her by the accused persons. 

            She further denied the suggestion that accused persons have also 

            threatened over to depose in the court in their favour.

      12.                          DW­2   Babloo     son   of   maternal   uncle   (mama)   of   the 

            accused persons.   He stated that he came at the house of his bua 

            Naseem Bano about 1 ½ year ago where he reside with accused 

            persons. "J" is the daughter of his uncle (chacha).  "J" was studying 

            in   the   school   and   used   to   go   to   school   everyday.     Aasif   is   a 

            carpenter, Aslam is a plumber and Afzal is a student. Mamta and 

            Anita were also residing in the said house with his bua.   Her bua, 

            Mamta, Anita and "J" used to sleep in one room.   "J" never got ill. 

            She  used   to  play  like  a  normal   child   of  her  age.    She  was  quite 

            happy in the family. Nana­nani of "J" used to visit in their house and 

            used to talk with "J" and they also used to talk with her on phone. 

            He took "J" to her to the house of her grand parent (dadi) on 2.7.11. 

            She remained there for 1 ½ month.  She did not tell anything about 

            the sexual harassment by accused persons to him.  

                                   In   cross   examination   he   stated   that   he   cannot   say 

            whether anybody is going out of the room in night hours.  He do not 

            know whether "J" complaint of rape by accused persons to her bua. 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 17 of  40
                                                                       18

            He denied the suggestion that he knew the said fact but denying the 

            same as he had good relation with accused persons.

      13.                          DW­3   Rahisan   is   the   grandmother   (dadi)   of   "J"   and 

            maternal grandmother (nani) of accused persons.  She deposed that 

            "J" resided in the house of her nana­nani till she was 5­6 years old 

            and Naseema brought her from there and thereafter she resided at 

            the house of her daughter Naseema.   She used to visit meet "J" 

            when she was residing in the house of Naseema.  "J" came to reside 

            with her prior to Id of last year.  She was quite fine at that time and 

            used to play with children.   She did not complaint anything against 

            the accused persons.
                                   In her cross examination she stated that she did not visit 

            to PS or any senior police official regarding the present case nor she 

            made complaint to them.
      14.                          DW­4 Noor Jahan is the another aunt (Fufi) of "J" and 

            maternal aunt (mausi) of accused persons.   She deposed that "J" 

            visited to her house along with her grand mother on mithi  Id and 

            stayed for about 4­5 days. "J" was behaving like a a normal child. 

            "J"   asked   she   wanted   to   visit   to   the   house   of   her   maternal 

            grandmother (nani), so she took "J" to the house of her nani.  



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 18 of  40
                                                                       19

                                   In cross examination she stated that "J" was behaving 

            normally   when   she   visited   to   the   house   of   her   sister   Naseema 

            Khatoon.   She denied the suggestion that she is not disclosing the 

            true facts of rape by the accused persons because of the influence 

            of the accused persons.  
      15.                          Arguments were heard from Shri A.K. Gupta, Ld. Add. 

            PP for the State and Shri Manobal Gupta and Shri Vimal Puggal, Ld. 

            Advocates for all accused persons. Ld. Add. PP for the State has 

            argued   that   from   the   testimony   of   "J"   it   is   proved   that   accused 

            persons have committed rape with "J" during the period she resided 

            in their house. He further argued that her testimony is corroborated 

            by other PWs and MLC ExPW12/A.     Hence prosecution has been 

            able to prove the offence of rape against the accused persons. 

      16.                          On the other hand, Ld. Counsels for accused persons 

            have contended that testimony of "J" is highly unreliable  as same is 

            full   of   improvement   and   contradictions.   Ld.   Counsel   further 

            contended that due to the enmity between the grandparents (nana­

            nani) of "J" and parents of accused persons, accused were falsely 

            implicated in the present case.
      17.                          Accused have been charged for committing rape with a 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 19 of  40
                                                                       20

            minor girl of less than 12 years of age. Relevant provision of law is 

            as under:­
                                   375 IPC Rape.- A man is said to commit "rape"
                                   who, except in the case hereinafter excepted, has
                                   sexual intercourse with a woman under
                                   circumstances falling under any of the six
                                   following descriptions:-
                                   First--Against her will.
                                   Secondly-Without her consent.
                                   Thirdly-With her consent, when her consent has
                                   been obtained by putting her or any person in
                                   whom she is interested in fear of death or of hurt.
                                   Fourthly- With her consent, when the man knows
                                   that he is not her husband, and that her consent
                                   is given because she believes that he is another
                                   man to whom she is or believes herself to be
                                   lawfully married.
                                   Fifthly-With her consent, when, at the time of
                                   giving such consent, by personally or through
                                   another of any stupefying or unwholesome
                                   substance, she is unable to understand the
                                   nature and consequences of that to which she
                                   gives consent.
                                   Sixthly-With or without her consent, when she is
                                   under sixteen years of age.
                                   Since in this case the prosecutrix is less than 16
                                   years of age. In fact, as per her testimony, she
                                   was 11 years of age at the time of incident.
                                   Therefore, sixth clause of section 375 IPC will
                                   apply in this case. Hence, if it is proved that
                                   accused has committed sexual intercourse with
                                   her, than it would be sufficient to prove rape
                                   charges as in this case her consent is immaterial.
                                   Further prosecutrix is less than 12 years of age,
                                   therefore, the offence will be covered u/s. 376 (F)
                                   IPC, if prosecutrix able to prove the sexual

STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 20 of  40
                                                                       21

                                   intercourse by accused. Section 376 (f) IPC is as
                                   under:-
                                   376 (2) (f) IPC:- commits rape on a woman
                                   when she is under twelve years of age.
                                    shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for
                                    a term which shall not be less than ten years but
                                    which may be for life and shall also be liable to
                                    fine:
                                    Provided that the court may, for adequate and
                                    special reasons to be mentioned in the Judgment,
                                    impose a sentence of imprisonment of either
                                    description for a term of less than ten years.

      18.                          To   prove   the   age   of   "J",   prosecution   had   relied   upon 

            school   leaving   certificate   of     "J"   ExPX   issued   by   Prathmik   Balika 

            Vidhyalaya Madanpur Dabas.  Said certificate has been admitted by 

            accused persons.  As per said certificate   date of birth of the "J" is 

            11.2.2002 and the incident is prior to 20.03.2011. Hence, it is proved 

            that she was less than 12 years of age.
      19.               PW­11 SI Ravi Kumar has testified that he took "J" for medical 

            examination in SGM Hospital where she was medically examined. 

            No   suggestion   has   been   given   to   the   witness   that   "J"   was   not 

            medically   examined.   Hence,   it   is   proved   that   "J"   was   medically 

            examined.  He collected the MLC. PW12 Dr. Meenakshi Bansal has 

            proved the MLC of the prosecutrix as Ex.PW12/A, she has deposed 


STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 21 of  40
                                                                       22

            that she came to depose in place of Dr. Pooja, who examined the 

            prosecutrix.   She further deposed that since Dr. Pooja had left the 

            hospital and her present whereabouts are not known but she can 

            identify the handwriting and signature of Dr. Pooja. 

                                    She   has   deposed   that   "J"   was   examined   vide   MLC 

            Ex.PW12/A.   And   as   per   MLC   patient   was   conscious   and 

            cooperative.     Her   secondary   sexual   characters   were   not   well 

            developed.  She was febrile, temperature 101.0 degree F.  on local 

            examination there was no bleeding per vaginum.   No public hairs 

            were present.  Hymen was torn (there was old tear present). In   her 

            cross examination PW­12 stated that as per MLC hymen was found 

            torn (old torn),  therefore possibility of sexual intercourse cannot be 

            ruled out.   Hence, it is proved from MLC ExPW12/A that "J" was 

            subjected to sexual intercourse. 
      20.                          Since "J" was minor and it is proved from her MLC that 

            she was subjected to sexual intercourse, therefore, now prosecution 

            has   only   to   prove   that,   accused   had   committed   the   sexual 

            intercourse with her.
      21.                          In   this   regard   testimony   of   "J"   who   was   examined   as 

            PW1 is most important.  Her three statements have been recorded. 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 22 of  40
                                                                       23

            First time her statement Ex.PW1/A was recorded by PW11 SI Ravi. 

            Then   her   statement   ExPW5/A     u/s   164   Cr.P.C   was   recorded   by 

            PW5.  Third time her testimony was recorded in the court.  

      22.                          In her testimony PW­1/ "J" had  testified that when she 

            was running in six years, her fufi (mother of all accused) came to her 

            grandparent's  house and  brought her to  her house at Meer Vihar 

            after promising her grandparents  (nana­nani) that she would keep 

            her well.  There accused Afzal, Aslam and Ashiq started raping her 

            when she was sleeping in the room with other family members. They 

            took her to the roof of the house where accused put cloth on her 

            mouth and threatened with knife and committed sexual intercourse 

            with her (woh sab kaam kiya Jo mian bibi karte hain) they continued 

            to do the same things regularly for four years.
                                   In cross examination she denied the suggestion that due 

            to   enmity   she   had   falsely   stated   that   accused   persons   had 

            committed   rape   with   her.     Rather   she   categorically   stated   that 

            accused persons used to take her on roof and they also offered her 

            money and later on when she came to know that their act is illegal 

            thing then she resisted but they kept cloth on her mouth and also 

            threatened her after putting knife  on her mouth.  She also explained 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 23 of  40
                                                                       24

            in the cross examination that she did not disclose the said fact to her 

            school   friends   because   she   had   apprehension   that   she   would   be 

            beaten by accused persons.   
      23.                          In   her   statement   ExPW1/A,   "J"     had   also   stated   that 

            since   one   year,   all   the   accused   persons   separately,   on   different 

            occasions had forcefully committed wrong act with her. She further 

            stated   that  whenever,   out  of   three   accused   persons   any   accused 

            would have been at home, he used to commit wrong act with her. 

            Undoubtedly,   as   contended   by   Ld.   Defence   Counsel,   in   her 

            statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. ExPW5/A  prosecutrix/"J" had stated that 

            all the three accused tried to put their urinating part into her urinating 

            part but she did not allow them to put their complete urinating part 

            into her urinating part (ve apne peshab wali Jagah meri peshab wali 

            Jagah mein dalne ki koshish karte the par maine kabhi unhe pura 

            nahin dalne diya.  Main haath pair chalakar kisi bhi tarah unhe pura 

            apne ander nahin dalne deti thi.)   But in my view that statement of 

            prosecutrix do not harm the case of the prosecution because as per 

            explanation   of   Section   375   Cr.P.C.  penetration   is   sufficient   to 

            constitute   the   sexual   intercourse   necessary   to   the   commission   of 

            rape.     As   per   Modi   Book   titled   as   Medical   Jurisprudence   and 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 24 of  40
                                                                       25

            Toxicology, Twenty Second (student) Edition "partial penetration of 

            the penis within the labia majora or valva or pudenda  is sufficient to 

            constitute the offence of rape".   
      24.                            From   the   MLC   of  prosecutrix,   it   is   evident   that   her 

            hymen   was   found   torn   and   as   per   PW12   when   hymen   was   torn, 

            possibility of sexual intercourse cannot be ruled out. It is not the case 

            of the accused persons that due to any reason hymen of the "J" was 

            torn. She not a sports person. Hence, in this circumstances it can be 

            presumed that "J" hymen was torn due to sexual  intercourse   with 

            her.  As per testimony of "J", she was just between six years to ten 

            years old girl when accused persons have done sexual intercourse 

            with her. Such a young girl even may not knowing the meaning of 

            sexual intercourse so could say with certainity whether complete sex 

            has been done with her or not. Hence, even if she had stated in her 

            examination u/s. 164 Cr.PC. That she did not allow complete sexual 

            intercourse that is not fatal to the prosecution. 

      25.                          It is very unlikely that   "J" will indulge in such kind of 

            sexual activities of her own without being forced or lured as stated by 

            "J"   in   her   testimony.   She   was   residing   in   the   house   of   accused 

            persons under the guardianship of parents of accused persons.   If 

            she had sex with some other person then accused persons or their 

STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 25 of  40
                                                                       26

            parents must have known and would have objected to it, but no such 

            defence has been taken.  As stated above, hymen of "J" was old torn 

            which means sexual intercourse with her was done quite prior to the 

            incident reported to the police, which corroborated the testimony of 

            "J" that, accused persons have committed sexual intercourse with 

            her for a long period.   
      26.                          Ld.   Counsel   for   accused   also   argued   that   there   are 

            number   of   contradictions   in   the   statement   of   "J"   therefore   same 

            cannot be relied upon.   Undoubtedly there are some contradictions 

            in the statement of "J" such as in her testimony she has stated that 

            after 2­3 days of her bringing to Delhi accused persons raped her 

            whereas in her statement ExPW1/A she stated that after one year 

            accused persons have committed rape with her and in her statement 

            u/s   164   Cr.P.C.   she   has   stated   after   two   years   accused   persons 

            started committing wrong act with her.  Further in her testimony she 

            stated that accused persons committed rape with her after showing 

            her knife and putting cloth in her mouth.  The fact which she has not 

            stated in her other two statements i.e ExPW1/A and ExPW1/B.  

      27.                          In   my   view     on   the   basis   of   aforesaid   contradictions 

            testimony of "J" cannot be disbelieve.  "J" is just 12 years old, hence, 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 26 of  40
                                                                       27

            she is not as mature as an adult.  It cannot be ruled out that she may 

            have added the fact of putting knife or putting cloth in her mouth 

            because so she could defend herself that she was not consented 

            party to the said illicit act.   More ever the contradictions pointed by 

            Ld. Defense counsel had not confronted, so that "J" could explain the 

            same.   Hence, in such circumstances no benefit of contradictions 

            can be given to accused persons. Moreover, the contradictions are 

            minor in nature.  It is not the defense of the accused that somebody 

            else has done sex with her.   Hence it is immaterial when first time 

            she was raped or whether accused person committed sex with her 

            after showing the knife or they committed sex with her consent.  "J" 

            has   categorically   stated   that   accused   persons   committed   sexual 

            intercourse with her. 
      28.                          In their statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. accused persons have 

            stated that "J" has deposed against them because she was under 

            the influence of her maternal grandparents and there was also some 

            property  dispute  and  her   nana­nani  wanted  to  bring  her   back  but 

            their   parent   were   not   agreed   to   it.  Despite   the   fact   that   accused 

            persons   examined   four   witnesses   in   their   defense   but   they   have 

            failed to prove the aforesaid defense. On perusal of the testimony of 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 27 of  40
                                                                       28

            defense witnesses it is evident that their main stress is that since "J" 

            was living as normal child in the house of accused persons and she 

            had not complaint to them about the said ill act of accused person, 

            therefore,   no   rape   was   committed   with   her.     But   no   witness   had 

            testified that there was any property  dispute between the parents of 

            the   accused   persons   and   grand   parents   (Nana­Naani)   of   "J".   No 

            details of property left by either father or grand father of "J" has been 

            given   by   the   PWs.   Moreover,   if   any   property   was   left   by   "J" 

            grandfather, I failed to understand how property can be taken by "J" 

            by falsely implicating the sons of bua of "J". Further no witness had 

            deposed that there was any enmity between the parents of accused 

            persons   and   maternal   grandparents   of   "J"   over   any   other   issue. 

            Hence   accused   persons   have   failed   to   prove   that   there   was   any 

            enmity between parents of accused persons and grandparents of "J" 

            due to which "J" levelled false allegations of rape against them on 

            the instigation of her grand parents.  
      29.                          As far as testimony of DWs are concerned, DW­1 has 

            deposed   that   she   was   residing   in   the   house   of   accused   persons 

            along with her sister because her mother was  in Jail as she was 

            convicted   u/s   304B   IPC   and   "J"   has   never   complaint   anything 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 28 of  40
                                                                       29

            against the accused persons.   First of all there is no evidence that 

            DW1 was residing in the house of accused persons because in  her 

            testimony she has given her address as C­1/89 Mir Vihar whereas 

            address of accused persons is C­1/38 Mir Vihar.  Hence at the time 

            of recording evidence DW1 was not residing at the house of accused 

            persons.  She has not stated that  her mother was released from Jail 

            and due to which she left accused house and started residing in her 

            own house.   Hence her statement does not appear to be reliable. 

            She is  neighbour of accused persons  hence due to said fact she 

            may   have   deposed   falsely   in   favour   of   accused   persons   to   save 

            them.
      30.                          DW­2 Babloo is the cousin of accused persons (mama's 

            son).  He also deposed that  1/ 1 ½  year ago he used to reside in 

            the house along with the accused persons and "J" was also residing 

            there and used to play like a normal child.   But he is the cousin of 

            accused persons hence it cannot be ruled out that he is deposing 

            falsely to save them.   Similar is the position of DW­3 Rahisan and 

            DW­4 Noor Jahan.  They deposed that when "J" came to their house 

            she   was   quite   happy   and   did   not   complaint   anything   against   the 

            accused   persons   but   they     are   (nani)   and   (mausi)   of   accused 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 29 of  40
                                                                       30

            persons and it cannot be ruled out that to save the accused persons 

            they   are   falsely   deposing.   Hence   in   my   view,   defense   witnesses 

            have failed to shake the testimony of "J".
      31.                          In   view   of   the   aforesaid   facts,   Accused   persons   have 

            failed to prove why "J" had falsely deposed against them. She is a 

            child witness. Accused persons are just like her elder brothers with 

            whom she resided in the same house for almost four year. I fail to 

            see any reason why she will level false allegation of rape against 

            them to spoil her own  prestige and honour, therefore, I do not find 

            any reason to disbelieve the testimony of "J". 
      32.                          It   is   settled   law   that   testimony   of   prosecutrix   if   found 

            reliable   and   sufficient   for   conviction   without   any   corroboration,   as 

            prosecutrix is not an accomplice.     As held in In the case    Madho 

            Ram   and   another  V  The   State   of   U.P.,   AIR   1973   SC   469   as 

            under :­­

                        [T]   the   prosecutrix   cannot   be   considered   to   be   an 
                        accomplice.   As a rule of prudence, however, it has 
                        been emphasized that Courts should normally look for 
                        some corroboration of her testimony in order to satisfy 
                        itself that the prosecutrix is telling the truth and that a 
                        person, accused of abduction or rape, has not been 
                        falsely implicated.  The view that, as a matter of law, 
                        no conviction without corroboration was possible has 

STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 30 of  40
                                                                       31

                        not been accepted.  The only rule of law is the rule of 
                        prudence   namely   the   advisability   of   corroboration 
                        should   be   present   in   the   mind   of   the   Judge   or   the 
                        Jury, as the case may be.  There is no rule of practice 
                        that   there   must   in   every   case,     be   corroboration 
                        before a conviction can be allowed to stand.  
                                   Further   in   case    Bharwada   Bhoginbhai   Hirjibhai  V 

            State of Gujrat, AIR 1983 SC 753(1) as under :­­

                       Corroboration is not the sine qua non for a conviction 
                       in a rape case.  In the Indian setting, refusal to act on 
                       the   testimony   of   a   victim   of   sexual   assault   in   the 
                       absence of corroboration as a rule, is adding insult to 
                       injury.     Why   should   the   evidence   of   the   girl   or   the 
                       woman who complains of rape or sexual molestation 
                       be viewed with the aid of spectacles fitted with lenses 
                       tinged with doubt, disbelief or suspicion ? To do so is 
                       to   justify   the   charge   of   male   chauvinism   in   a   male 
                       dominated society.
                       On principle the evidence of a victim of sexual assault 
                       stands   on   par   with   evidence   of   an   injured   witness. 
                       Just as a witness who has sustained an injury (which 
                       is not shown or believed to be self inflicted) is the best 
                       witness in the sense that he is least likely to exculpate 
                       the real  offender, the evidence of a victim of a sex­
                       offence   is   entitled   to   great   weight,   absence   of 
                       corroboration   not   withstanding.   And   while 
                       corroboration in the form of eye­witness account of an 
                       independent witness may often be forthcoming.

STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 31 of  40
                                                                       32



                       Corroboration   may   be   insisted   upon   when   a   woman 
                       having   attained   majority   is   found   in   a   compromising 
                       position and there is a likelihood of her having levelled 
                       such an accusation on account of the instinct of self-
                       preservation, or when the 'probabilities factor' is found 
                       to be out of tune. 
      33.                          Recently   our   own   High   Court   in  State   Vs   Jai   Hind 

            Crl.LP.288/2011   dt   13.7.12  has   discussed   the   importance   of 

            testimony of prosecutrix in a sexual harassment case. In this Honble 

            Judge quoted the relevant para of Judgment of Supreme Court titled 

            as  State of Punjab Vs Gurmit Singh & others AIR 1996SC1393, 

            which is as under:­

                        "The   courts   should   examine   the   broader  
                        probabilities   of   a   case   and   not   get   swayed   by  
                        minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies  
                        in the statement of the prosecutrix which are not  
                        of a fatal nature, to trow out an otherwise reliable  
                        prosecution case.  If evidence of  the  prosecutrix  
                        inspires confidence, it must be relied upon without  
                        seeking corroboration of her statement in material  
                        particulars. If for some reason the court finds  it  
                        difficult to place implicit reliance on her testimony,  
                        it   may   look   for   evidence   which   may   lend  
                        assurance to her testimony, short of corroboration  
                        required   in   the   case   of   an   accomplice.   The  
                        testimony   of   the   entire   case   and   the   trial   court  

STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 32 of  40
                                                                       33

                        must be alive to its responsibility and be sensitive  
                        while   dealing   with   case   involving   sexual  
                        molestations."      
      34.                          Hence, in view of the aforesaid judicial pronouncement, I 

            am of the view testimony of "J" is itself sufficient for conviction and 

            no   corroboration   is   required,   as   I   found   her   testimony   consistent, 

            cogent and trustworthy.
      35.                          Even otherwise testimony of "J" is corroborated by her 

            grandparents. The grandparents of "J"  i.e PW­2 Mumtaz and PW­3 

            Mohd. Nizamuddin   have testified that five months back, during the 

            month of Ramzan, Noor Jahan fufi of "J" came to their house  and at 

            that   time   "J"  was   disturbed   and   they   inquired   from  her   about   her 

            condition, then she told that accused Aslam, Akram and Aasif had 

            raped her.   Nothing has come out in their cross examination.   The 

            contention   of   Ld.   Defense   counsel   that   PW­2   and   PW­3   had 

            admitted that they visited to the house of accused persons during the 

            stay   of   "J",   hence   if   rape   had   been   committed   with   "J"   then   she 

            would have disclosed the said fact to them.   But I do not find any 

            force   in   the   said   argument   because   she   was   a   very   young   child 

            going with such a trauma.  She has explained that accused persons 

            used to encircle her whenever her grandparents used to visit to meet 


STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 33 of  40
                                                                       34

            her   due   to   said   reason,   she   did   not   informed   to   them.     "J"   was 

            residing in the house of accused persons, therefore she may was 

            frightened with the accused persons that they will beat her if she will 

            disclose the fact of rape and that may be the reason why "J" did not 

            disclose the factum of rape to them during her stay at the house of 

            accused persons. Further both the PWs in their cross examination 

            have specifically denied that since father of "J" had left immovable 

            property   that   is   why   they   have   falsely   implicated   the   accused 

            persons. No details of said immovable property left by the father of 

            "J"   had   been   given   by   accused   persons   either   in   their   cross 

            examination of PW2 & PW3 or in their defence. Further, PW3 has 

            also specifically denied that he want to call back "J", but same was 

            refused   by   her   Fufa   and  Fufi   that's   why   he   falsely   implicated   the 

            accused persons.  No  suggestion  has   been given  to PW2  &  PW3 

            when they asked the parents of the accused persons to sent back 

            the "J". Further, it is difficult to believe that due to aforesaid reason or 

            due to any enmity with parents of the accused persons PW2 & PW3 

            will instigate their grand daughter "J" to level false allegation of rape 

            against the  accused persons.  Hence,  I do  not  find any   reason to 

            disbelieve the testimony of PW2 & PW3.


STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 34 of  40
                                                                       35
      36.                          Further from the MLC of accused persons Ex.PW13/A, 

            Ex.PW13/B and Ex.PW13/C it is proved that they were not incapable 

            in   performing   sexual   intercourse.     Even   otherwise,   this   is   not   the 

            defense of accused persons.  
      37.                          In   view   of   aforesaid   facts   and   circumstances   and 

            considering   the   testimonies   of   "J"   duly   corroborated   by   the 

            testimonies   of   PW­2   and   PW­3,   the   police   officials,   medical 

            evidence, I am of the   view that the prosecution has been able to 

            prove beyond reasonable doubt that all the three accused persons 

            separately (not at the same time or with their common intention) on 

            different occasions committed rape with "J" during her stay at their 

            house.   Hence I convict all  the three accused for the offence  u/s 

            376(2)(f) of IPC.

        ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE­I(NORTH): ROHINI COURTS: DELHI

                                                                                                              SC No.153/11.
                                                                                                             FIR No.213/11.
                                                                                                          PS­KANJHAWALA. 
                                                                                                             U/s.376/34  IPC

STATE 

                                               VERSUS
      1. AFZAL,
      2. AASHIK SAIFI @ AFSAR, 
      3. ASLAM, 
                  All Sons of  NISHAR AHMED &
                  All R/O. H.NO. C­1/138, MEER VIHAR,
                   V&PO­ MADAN PUR DABAS, DELHI.                        Convicts Afzal, Aashiq and Aslam are produced from JC.
                       Shri Manobal Gupta, ld. Counsel for all the convicts.

      1.                           Vide Judgment dated 02.03.2013 Convicts Afzal, Aashiq 

            and Aslam were convicted for offence u/s. 376(2) (f) IPC. 

STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 36 of  40
                                                                       37
      2.                           It is  submitted by the ld. Counsel  for the convict that, 

            convict Afzal is aged about 21 years and he was studying in  class 
                th
            12 . Accused Aashik is aged about 26 years old and he was working 

            as a carpenter. Accused Aslam is aged about 24 years and he was 

            working   as   a   plumber.   All   the   three   accused   persons   are   real 

            brothers and the accused persons have old aged parents and one 

            unmarried sister and one married sister.   He further submitted that 

            accused has old aged parents to look after and he is the only bread 

            winner of his family. Therefore, lenient view may kindly be taken.

      3.                           It is argued by the ld. Addl. PP for the State that convicts 

            have committed rape with a minor girl of just 6­10 years of age at the 

            time of incident, who was cousin sister (daughter of maternal uncle) 

            of the accused persons and  who was brought to their house by the 

            parents   of   the   accused   persons,   as   her   father   expired   and   her 

            mother re­married. Thus they have not only ruined her life, but has 

            also   broken   the   sanctity   of   relationship.   Hence,   the   convicts 

            deserves   no  leniency  and   they   should  be   convicted  for  maximum 

            sentence under the statute.
      4.                           I have considered the rival submissions.
      5.                           It has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 37 of  40
                                                                       38

            in para no.17 of the Judgment "State vs Karnataka Vs. Krishnappa 

            AIR 2000 SC 1470" 

                                   Protection   of   society   and   deterring   the  

                                   criminal is the avowed object of law that is  

                                   required   to   be   achieved   by   imposing   an  

                                   appropriate   sentence.   The   sentencing  

                                   Courts are expected to consider all relevant  

                                   facts   and   circumstances   bearing   on   the  

                                   question   of   sentence   and   proceed   to  



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 38 of  40
                                                                       39

                                   impose a sentence commensurate with the  

                                   gravity of the offence. Courts must hear the  

                                   loud   cry   for   justice   by   the   society   in   the  

                                   heinous crime of rape on innocent helpless  

                                   girls   of   tender   years,   and   respond   by  

                                   imposition   of   proper   sentence.   Public  

                                   abhorrence   of   the   crime   needs   reflection,  

                                   therefore, imposition of proper sentence by  

                                   the court......."
      6.                           I am agree with the contention of the ld. Addl. PP for the 

            State that the act of convicts are quite grave as they have committed 

            rape with a young girl of less than 12 years of age and thus not only 

            spoiled the life of a child but also they have broken the trust of the "J" 

            and shattered the sanctity of the relationships on which our society 

            relies. However, at the same time I cannot loose the sight that all the 

            convicts are the real brothers and are of young age and they have 

            old parents to look after.
      7.                           Therefore,   taking   into   accounts   aggravating   and 

            mitigating circumstances, in my view proper sentence in this case 

            would   be   all   the   convicts   are   sentenced   for   Ten   years   Rigorous 



STATE V Afzal & Ors.                    SC No.153/2011         FIR No.213/2011               PS­Kan"J"hawala          page 39 of  40
                                                                       40

            Imprisonment under Section 376 (2) (f) IPC with fine of Rs.5,000/­ 

            each, in default of payment of fine, they shall further undergo Simple 

            Imprisonment for Six months.
      8.                           The convicts shall be entitled for benefit of Section 428 

            Cr.P.C.   A   copy   of   Judgment   and   that   of   order   on   sentence   be 

            provided to the Convicts.   File be consigned to record room.


