1. Vide this judgment I shall dispose of this case in which Station House Officer of

    Police   Station   Nand   Nagri   had   filed   a   challan   vide   FIR   No.185/2010   dated

    05.09.2010 u/s 363/376 IPC for the prosecution of accused Sunil @ Monu in the

    court of   Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate and Ld. MM after compliance of section

    207 Cr. P.C.  committed this case for trial before this court.  Keeping in view of

    section 228 (A) IPC and directions of Supreme court in "State of Karnataka Vs.

    Puttraj 2004 (1) SCC 475"  and "Om Prakash Vs. State of U.P. 2006, CRLJ.

    2913", the name of prosecutrix is not being given in the judgment.



2. In brief, facts  of the case are that on 04.09.2010 a DD No.29­A Ex.PW9/A was
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                  4/3
     recorded at police station Nand Nagri regarding commission of wrong act upon a

    minor girl and thereupon ASI Surti Ram along with Ct. Narender had reached at

    the spot where they came to know that victim had already been shifted to GTB

    Hospital and public persons/mohalla people had produced accused before them

    and accused was apprehended by ASI Surti Ram and  they had taken accused to

    GTB Hospital. S.I. Manmeet had also   received information through telephone

    from police station regarding rape with a child at House No. C­2/16, Nand Nagri,

    Delhi and he had reached there and came into his notice that victim had already

    been taken by PCR officials to GTB Hospital.  Thereafter, S.I. Manmeet had gone

    to GTB Hospital in Gynae Department where victim and her mother were present

    and S.I. Manmeet had forwarded a request for medical examination of victim to

    doctor   upon   which   she   was   medically   examined   vide   MLC   Ex.   PW14/A.

    Thereafter,   S.I.   Manmeet   had   recorded   statement   of   mother   of   victim   vide

    Ex.PW4/A and made endorsement upon the same vide Ex.PW2/A and gave it to

    Ct.   Narender   for   registration   of   case.     Accordingly,   FIR   No.   185/2010   dated

    05.09.2010 u/s 363/376 IPC Ex.PW2/DX was registered against accused Sunil @

    Monu.   During the course of investigation, police had arrested accused Sunil @

    Monu.


    CHARGE:
3. On the basis of material available on record, this court framed a charges vide

    order   dated   01.02.2011   against   accused   Sunil   @   Monu   for   the   offences

    punishable u/s 363/366/324/377/511/376 IPC   to which accused     did not plead

    guilty and claimed trial.  On 13.07.2012, an amended charge for offence u/s 376
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                    5/3
     (2) (f) IPC was also framed against accused Sunil @ Monu to which accused did

    not plead guilty and claimed trial.


    PROSECUTION WITNESSES:
4. In order to prove its case prosecution has examined  16 witnesses  namely  PW1

    L/Ct. Indu Lata,    PW2  HC Satvir,  PW3 S.I. Kapil Kumar,  PW4 Smt. Rekha,

    PW5 Prosecutrix,  PW6 Sh. Naresh Kumar, PW7 Smt. Poonam, PW8 Ct. Suresh

    Chand,  PW9  ASI   Surti   Ram,  PW10  Sh.   S.K.   Arora,   ld.   MM,    PW11  Ct.

    Narender Kumar, PW12 Smt. Santosh Kumari, PW13 HC Fateh Singh,   PW14

    Dr. Vandana, PW15 Dr. P. Ram and PW16 S.I. Manmeet.

5. PW1   L/Ct. Indu Lata.  This witness along with SHO/Inspector Narender Singh

    Rana   reached   at   GTB   Hospital   on   04.09.2010   and   she   had   got   medically

    examined the victim  from the hospital and after medical examination of victim,

    one kit containing evidence of sexual assault was handed over to her by the GTB

    Hospital Staff along with sample seal.  This witness had delivered the same to S.I.

    Manmeet Singh in GTB Hospital who had seized the same vide seizure memo

    Ex.PW1/A.

6. In   her   cross   examination   by   ld.   defence   counsel,   this   witness   denied   to   the

    suggestion that he had not joined the investigation of this case or that he had not

    put her signature on the seizure memo later on at police station. 7. PW2  HC Satvir is a formal witness being duty officer.   This witness has proved

    the copy of FIR vide Ex.PW2/B which was recorded by him through computer

    operator on the basis of rukka Ex.PW2/A presented by Ct. Narender.



8. In his cross examination by ld. defence counsel, this witness has deposed that he

    cannot tell that how many FIR were recorded by him during his duty without

    going through the record.  

9. PW3  S.I. Kapil Kumar.   This witness has deposed that on 30.11.2010, further

    investigation of this case was assigned to him as previous investigating officer of

    this case was on leave and he had collected the present file from MHC(R).   This

    witness had taken some formal steps during the course of interrogation of accused

    and completed challan. 

10.In his cross examination by ld. defence counsel, this witness admits that he had

    not visited the spot  of present case and that he had not recorded statement of any

    witness of this case and that he had not sent the exhibits of this case to FSL.



11.PW4 Smt. Rekha, mother of victim is a material witness being complainant. This

    witness   has   deposed   that   she   is   house   wife   and   her   husband   is   driver   by

    profession and she have four daughters.

12.This   witness   has   further   deposed   that   on   04.09.2010,   at   about   5:00   p.m.   her

    daughter - victim, aged about 7 years had gone from her house to a park, near
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                      7/3
     temple,  for playing and when she did not return to her house till late evening then

    she and her sister­in­law, Smt. Poonam went to the park in search of her daughter.

    This witness has further deposed that during search, they found that victim was

    weeping in gali, near the House No. C­2/18, Nand Nagri and noticed white mark

    on cheek of her daughter and on asking from her, victim replied that one uncle

    had taken her inside his house and caused teeth bite on her cheek.



13.This witness has further deposed that victim had taken them inside the house No.

    C­2/18 and when they were taking entry inside the aforesaid room then accused

    present in court came out from his house and run away and her daughter pointed

    out towards accused saying that he is the same uncle who had caused tooth bite to

    her.      This witness has further deposed that accused present in court (correctly

    identified) was caught hold by her brother­in­law  (devar) Naresh while running

    and   several   mohalla   people   gathered   in   front   of   house   of   accused   and   some

    persons had given beatings to the accused.  Name of accused Sunil @ Monu came

    into her notice when he was being given beatings.       This witness has further

    deposed that victim had told her that accused had put off her clothes inside his

    house and had done wrong acts upon her.     This witness had also noticed teeth

    bite marks on the private part ( pesab karne wali jagah) of victim.



14.This witness has proved her statement vide Ex.PW4/A.   This witness has also

    proved arrest memo Ex.PW4/B and personal search memo Ex.PW4/C of accused.

    This witness has proved photocopy of birth certificate of victim mark vide X,

    photocopy of school progress report vide mark Y, photographs of victim vide

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                     8/3
     mark Z­1 to Z­3.

15.This   witness   has   correctly   identified   clothes   of   victim.     This   witness   has

    identified frock of victim vide Ex.P1, panty of victim vide Ex.P2 and one maroon

    small ladies purse having two pencils, one plastic piece in the shape of heart of

    victim vide Ex.P3 collectively.

16.In her cross examination by ld. defence counsel, this witness has deposed that

    victim had left her house at about 5:00 p.m. on the day of incident to go to park

    and at that time, victim was playing in the park with some other minor children

    and when victim did not return, they made her search for about 30 or 45 minutes.

    This witness has deposed that victim had met them at about 6:30 p.m. or 6:45

    p.m. near the house of accused.  This witness has further deposed that she and her

    sister­in­law (Devrani) had seen victim coming near the house of accused in Gali

    No.C­2, Nand Nagri, Delhi during search and there was walking distance of two

    minutes between her house and house of accused.

17.This witness has deposed that victim was not in a condition to say any word at

    that  time and she had noticed tooth  bite  mark on left cheek of victim.    This

    witness has further deposed that victim was medically examined in her presence

    by   the   doctor   there   and   victim   was   wearing   same   clothes   at   the   time   of   her

    medical examination.   Police had recorded her statement as well as of victim at

    police station on the same day.     This witness has further deposed that she had

    handed over the birth certificate of victim to police during her interrogation and

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                          9/3
     she had not delivered any photograph of victim to police at any point of time.

       

18.This witness had denied to the suggestion that she had not seen accused while

    running from his house at about 7:30 p.m.   This witness had further denied to the

    suggestion that accused did not commit any wrong act upon the person of victim

    or that police did not come at her house for investigation or that accused was not

    arrested in her presence.

19.PW5  Prosecutrix   is   a   material   witness   being   victim.    This   witness   has   been

    examined   by   this   court   after   ascertaining   her   knowledge   and   capacity   of

    understanding     by   putting   some   questions   and   after   getting   reply   on   being

    satisfied, this witness was examined.

20.This witness has deposed that on the day of incident she was in 3rd standard, in

    the afternoon she was playing outside her house with her friends.  This witness

    has   deposed   that   when   she   was   playing,   accused   present   in   court   (correctly

    identified) came there and picked her purse, chocolate coloured having four clips,

    accused had taken her in a house at some distance from park and accused had

    given his teeth bite on her private part and on her cheeks.

      

21.This witness has further deposed that firstly, accused had opened her hair and

    removed her clothes and he had also removed his clothes and then he had given

    teeth bites on her cheeks and oiled her private part and spread powder two times

    and slapped her and then he put his private part into her private part.  Thereafter,

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                   10/3
     she cried, then two ­ four uncles and one aunty came there and her mother and

    aunty also came there and they dressed her up.

22.This witness has further deposed that one person out of aforesaid 2 - 4 uncles had

    caught hold the accused Sunil Kumar @ Monu and police had reached there on

    cry of her mother and then accused was handed over to police.  Thereafter, she

    was taken to GTB Hospital for her medical examination by police accompanied

    by her aunties.

23.This witness has proved her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. vide Ex.PW5/A.   This

    witness has correctly identified one chocolate colour purse having four hair clips

    belong to her, two pencils, one bindi strip and one plastic item which belong to

    her sister vide Ex. P­3 collectively.

24.In her cross examination by ld. defence counsel, this witness has deposed that she

    has not been tutored by her parents regarding the facts of this case and she had

    not deposed her statement before the court of Ld. MM at the instance of her

    parents.  

25.This witness had denied to the suggestion that aunty in the house where incident

    had taken place had gone to leave her at her house.  This witness had stated that

    Baby and Babbar are her buas (paternal aunties) and she has three uncles namely

    Mordaj, Golu and Naresh.  This witness denied to the suggestion that her father or

    any of uncle had given beatings to accused on the day of incident.  This witness

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                      11/3
     has deposed that accused was beaten by her uncle Mordaj and then by police.

    This witness has further deposed that accused had not given her teeth bites on her

    cheeks prior to the incident.     This witness had denied to the suggestion that

    accused had not removed her clothes  or that accused had not removed his own

    clothes.     This   witness   had   denied   to   the   suggestion   that   accused   had   not

    committed any wrong act with her and that accused has been implicated in this

    case due to enmity with her family.

26.PW6  Sh. Naresh Kumar is uncle of victim.     This witness has deposed that on

    04.09.2010 at about 7:00 p.m. he was going to park from his house and when he

    had  reached   at  park   known  as   C­1  park,  he  saw   victim,   aged   about   6  years,

    coming from the park weepingly and at that time, his two sister­in­laws (bhabhis)

    Smt. Rekha and Smt. Poonam had noticed teeth bite marks on the cheek of victim

    and victim told that one uncle had taken her at his house where he had outraged

    her modesty by putting off her clothes and accused had caused teeth bite marks.

    In his presence, victim had identified accused Sunil @ Monu and said that he had

    committed crime with her.

27.This   witness   has   further   deposed   that   they   had   bolted   the   door   of   house   of

    accused   from outside as public persons gathered at his house   and they were

    aggressive to beat him and someone called police at 100 number.  This witness

    had produced accused before the police in the presence of victim.

     

28.PW7 Smt. Poonam.  This witness has deposed on the same footing as deposed by

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                      12/3
     PW4 Smt. Rekha, mother of victim.

29.PW8  Ct.  Suresh  Chand.     This   witness   on   27.10.2010  had  taken  three   sealed

    parcels, forwarding letter etc. to FSL for analysis from the custody of MHC(M)

    on the direction of I.O. vide RC No.108/21.

30.In his cross examination by ld. defence counsel, his statement Ex.PW8/DA was

    confronted.

31.PW9 ASI Surti Ram.   This witness has deposed that on 04.09.2010, he was on

    day  emergency  duty   from   08:00am   to  08:00pm   and  during   his  duty  at  about

    07:40pm, copy of DD no.29­A,  Ex.PW9/A was assigned to him to take action

    into the matter, which was in connection that one boy had committed wrong act

    upon a minor girl at C­2/16, Nand Nagari, Delhi. This witness along with Ct.

    Narender reached at aforesaid address and there it came into their notice from the

    public that victim had already been removed to  GTB Hospital  by PCR officials

    and accused Sunil @ Monu, present in court (correctly identified), was produced

    before them by the public. It had come into his notice that he had been beaten by

    public.   This   witness   had   taken   accused   to  GTB   Hospital  for   his   medical

    examination and  informed to SHO.

32.This witness has further deposed that in GTB Hospital S.I. Manmeet Malik along

    with lady Ct. Indulata had met them there and   SHO also reached there. This

    witness   has   further   deposed   that   accused   Sunil   was   medically   examined   vide
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                 13/3
     MLC Mark X and one small size ladies purse had been recovered from the dub of

    wearing pant of accused by doctor and same was delivered to him and he had

    checked  the  same  and  found  some   hair  clip  and  Bindi  and  some  other  small

    articles in aforesaid purse. I had produced the same before S.I. Manmeet Malik

    and he had seized the same vide seizure memo Ex.PW4/E.



33.This  witness    had produced accused before S.I.  Manmeet  Malik as SHO  had

    assigned the investigation of this case to him. I had also handed over the DD

    no.29­A.

34.This   witness   has   correctly   identified   one   small   ladies   purse   containing   two

    pencils, two hair clips and one small sheet of bindi and one plastic item in heart

    shape which was found in the possession of accused vide  Ex.P­3 collectively.



35.In his cross examination by ld. defence counsel, this witness has deposed that  he

    does not remember the name of the informant in respect of DD No.29­A and he

    had received the information through telephone.   This witness has deposed that

    when he had reached there he had noticed that public persons were gathered there

    and some of them were beating to accused and he had taken the accused to GTB

    Hospital on his private motorcycle for his medical examination. This witness has

    further deposed that he had not recorded statement of any public person at the

    spot as  he had saved the accused from aggressive public persons and he had

    informed to SHO   at some distance after leaving the spot.       This witness has

    further deposed that accused was not examined in his presence as he was behind

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                 14/3
     the   curtain.     This   witness   has   further   deposed   that   S.I.   Manmeet   Malik   had

    prepared site plan in his presence and seizure memo of purse was prepared in his

    presence by S.I. Manmeet Malik.

36.This   witness   denied   to   the   suggestion   that   he   had   not   participated   in   the

    investigation of this case, or that he had not received information in respect of

    DD No.29­A, or that he had not reached at the spot.  This witness further denied

    to the   suggestion  that  he  had  not   taken  the  accused  in  GTB   Hospital  for   his

    medical examination, or that he had not informed to SHO, or that he had not

    come in GTB Hospital, or that S.I. Manmeet Malik had not prepared site plan in

    his presence, or that aunty of victim was not present at that time. 

     

37.PW10  Sh.   S.K.   Arora,   ld.   MM.     This   witness   had   recorded   statement   of

    prosecutrix u/s 164 Cr.P.C. This witness has proved statement of prosecutrix u/s

    164 Cr.  P.C.  vide  Ex.PW5/A.        This   witness  has  also  proved the certificate

    Ex.PW10/A regarding correctness of statement of prosecutrix.

      

38.PW11 Ct. Narender Kumar.  This witness on  04.09.2010, along with ASI Surti

    Ram had reached at C­2/18 Block, Nand Nagari, Delhi and on reaching there,

    they  saw  that one boy was being beaten by gathering. This witness along with

    ASI Surti Ram rescued that boy who is accused Sunil @ Monu present today in

    the court.   (Witness has   correctly identified the accused).     This witness has

    further deposed that  accused was medically examined vide MLC mark X. This

    witness has proved seizure memo vide Ex.PW11/A.   39.This witness had taken the rukka to get the FIR registered at P.S. In his presence,

    accused   was   arrested   and   his   personal   search   was   conducted   and     I.O.   had

    prepared site plan at the instance of PW Smt. Rekha. 



40.Ld. substitute Addl. PP, requests to put a leading question to this witness on the

    fact   of   place   where   accused   had   been   found   being   beaten   by   public.   Heard.

    Allowed. 

41.In his cross examination by Ld. APP for the State, this witness has deposed that

    he along with I.O. had reached near C­2/16, where, he had seen accused being

    beaten by public. This witness admits that earlier he had stated C­2/18 instead of

    C­2/16 due to confusion.

42.In his cross examination by ld. defence counsel, this witness has deposed that he

    had received information over telephone at about 07:32pm outside the P.S. and

    they had left police station on private motorcycle of I.O./ASI Surti Ram at about

    07:40pm and they had reached at the the spot withing 7/8 minutes.  This witness

    has further deposed that many public persons had gathered over there and he does

    not know any person personally who had beaten accused. This witness has further

    deposed that he does not remember today the dress worn by the victim in the

    hospital.  This witness has further deposed that SHO was already aware with the

    facts of incident and he had reached in GTB Hospital and he stayed there four

    about ½ hour and he had conversed with S.I. Manmeet.  This witness has further

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                    16/3
     deposed that he had returned at GTB Hospital after registration of FIR at about

    12:35 a.m. and he had seen S.I. Manmeet in the GTB Hospital when he had gone

    there. This witness has further deposed that so far as he remember, doctor had

    handed over him three sealed parcels after medical examination of accused and

    doctor had sealed the parcels in his presence.

43.PW12 Smt. Santosh Kumari, Principal, MC Primary School, Nand Nagri, Delhi.

    This   witness   has   brought   admission   register   pertaining   to   admission   entry   of

    prosecutrix and admission form along with affidavit of prosecutrix.  This witness

    has deposed that as per school record, Anil Kumar, father of prosecutrix, had

    come   in   their   school   at   the   time   of   her   admission   and   admission   form   and

    affidavit were filled up as per the direction of Anil Kumar and date of birth was

    mentioned in the admission form and admission register as 07.05.2003.     This

    witness has proved photocopy of admission register having entries of aforesaid

    student   at   serial   No.   4714   vide   Ex.PW12/A.     This   witness   has   also   proved

    admission form vide Ex.PW12/B, affidavit vide Ex.PW12/C and photocopy of

    progress of the year 2009­2010 of prosecutrix vide mark 'Y'.   

     

44.PW13 HC Fateh Singh is MHC(M).  This witness has brought register No.19 and

    RC book pertaining to entries of present case.  This witness has proved the entries

    on behalf of HC Manoj then MHC(M).   This witness has deposed that as per

    record, on 05.09.2010, S.I. Manmeet Malik had deposited three sealed parcels

    containing exhibits of this case along with sample seal in the malkhana and HC

    Manoj had taken the custody of same and made entry at serial No.5053 in register
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                     17/3
     No.19.  This witness has proved same vide Ex.PW13/A.  

      

45.This witness has further deposed that on 27.09.2010 aforesaid parcels and sample

    seal   had   been   sent   to   FSL   along   with   forwarding   letter   and   road   certificate

    No.108/21 through Ct. Suresh.  This witness has proved the entries of the same

    vide Ex.PW13/B and copy of RC vide Ex.PW13/C. 

46.This  witness has further deposed that on 31.01.2011 expert opinion in sealed

    envelope was received along with sealed parcel and endorsement to this effect

    was also made by HC Manoj vide Ex.PW13/D.

47.PW14 Dr. Vandana, S.R. GTB Hospital, Delhi.  This witness has proved MLC of

    prosecutrix vide Ex.PW14/A on behalf of Dr. Ria.   

48.PW15  Dr.   P.   Ram,   CMO,   GTB   Hospital.     This   witness   has   proved   MLC

    Ex.PW15/A of accused Sunil on behalf of Dr. Bhuvnesh Kumar.



49.In his cross examination by ld. defence counsel, this witness has deposed that Dr.

    Bhuvnesh had worked under his supervision in GTB Hospital and aforesaid MLC

    was prepared by him when he was on duty as CMO. 

50.PW16 S.I. Manmeet is a material witness being I.O.   This witness has deposed

    that   on   04.09.2010   at   about   07:45   p.m.   he   had   received   information   through

    telephone from police station regarding rape with a child at House No. C­2/16,
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                      18/3
     Nand Nagri, Delhi and he reached there and came to know that victim had already

    been taken by PCR officials  to GTB Hospital and accused was apprehended by

    ASI Surti Ram who had reached before him there and he had taken accused to

    GTB  Hospital.     Thereafter,  this  witness   had  gone  to  GTB  Hospital   in  Gynae

    Department   where   victim   and   her   mother   were   present.     This   witness   had

    forwarded a request for medical examination of victim to doctor upon which she

    was medically examined vide MLC No.G­96/2010 vide Ex.PW14/A.



51.Thereafter, this witness had recorded statement of mother of the victim namely

    Rekha vide Ex.PW4/A and put his endorsement Ex.PW2/A on the statement and

    gave it to Ct. Narender for registration of case. This witness has further deposed

    that the call was vide DD No.29­A Ex.PW9/A was regarding House No. C­2/16

    but after recording the statement of PW Rekha she had disclosed the spot as C­

    2/18.  

52.This witness has further deposed that lady Ct. Indulata had given sexual assault

    evidence collection kit regarding victim and sample sealed which he had  seized

    the same vide seizure memo Ex.PW1/A. 

53.During the course of investigation, this witness had enquired from the victim

    about the incident and recorded her statement u/s 161 Cr. P.C. ASI Surti Ram had

    handed over him one pink hand pursue saying that same was recovered from the

    possession of accused and on checking the same he had noticed it was containing

    one pencil, small hair clip etc. This witness had  converted the same into a cloth

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                              19/3
     parcel and sealed the same with the seal of MM and seized the same vide seizure

    memo  Ex.PW4/E.

54.This   witness   has   proved   arrest   memo     Ex.PW4/B,   personal   search   memo

    Ex.PW4/C and  disclosure statement Ex.PW4/D of accused Sunil @ Monu.  This

    witness has also proved seizure memo Ex.PW11/A.

55.During   the   course   of   investigation,   this   witness   had   prepared   site   plan,

    Ex.PW16/A   at   the   instance   of   PW   Rekha.     This   witness   had   recorded

    supplementary   statement   of   PW   Rekha   and   this   witness   had   also   recorded

    statement of PW Poonam (devrani of PW Rekha) and of Naresh.

     

56.During  the  course  of  investigation,   this   witness   had  produced  the  victim  and

    accused   before   duty   MM   in   Karkardooma   Courts,   where,   he   had   moved   two

    separate applications, one for recording of statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

    and the other for two days PC of accused and on that day, court had allowed the

    application of two day PC of accused vide Ex.PW16/B.



57.During  the course of  investigation,  on 06.09.2010, this  witness  had produced

    accused  in  GTB   Hospital   and  also   called  victim   and  her  mother  there   to   get

    matched the tooth bite mark on the cheek of victim, where, photographs of tooth

    bite   marks   on   the   cheeks   of   victim   were   taken   by   the   doctors   and   tooth

    impression of accused was also taken. 58.During the course of investigation, on 07.09.2010, this witness had produced the

    victim before the concerned court to get recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

    which was recorded by Sh. S.K. Arora, Ld. link MM vide Ex.PW5/A.

     

59.During the course of investigation, this witness had sent sealed parcels of the

    present case through Ct. Suresh to FSL Rohini for examination on 27.09.2010

    vide RC No.108/21 vide Mark PW16/A.

60.This witness has proved the copy of the birth certificate of the victim vide Mark

    X and the progress report of the school reflecting her date of birth as Mark Y.

    This witness has also proved the FSL reports vide Ex.PW16/C and Ex.PW16/D

    respectively.

61.This witness has proved one maroon colour ladies purse containing two pencils,

    one plastic piece in the shape of heart, hair clips and Bindis vide Ex.P­3 which

    ASI Surti Ram had handed over to him, recovered from the possession of accused

    during his medical examination.

62.In his cross examination by ld. defence counsel, this witness has deposed that he

    was   on   reserve   emergency   duty   being   the   division   officer.   This   witness   has

    further deposed that as per the call spot was recorded as 2/16 but in the statement

    of PW Rekha, spot was told by her as 2/18. This witness has further deposed that

    he had seized approximately five sealed parcels through different seizure memos.

    This witness has further deposed that ASI Surti Ram had told him that doctors

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                   21/3
     had  recovered  the   purse   from   accused  during   his   medical   examination.     This

    witness has further deposed that he   had taken 5­6 hours in the completion of

    proceeding   at   GTB   Hospital.   This   witness   has   further   deposed   that   he   had

    mentioned in the site plan address of the spot as C­2/16­17 as it was two joint

    house of 25 square yards each on the pointing out of PW Rekha at the spot.  This

    witness has further deposed that he cannot say about the floors of the house of the

    spot but the offence was committed at first floor of C­2/16­17 and he   had not

    recorded the statement landlord of the house.

63.This   witness   admits   that   neither   the   date   nor   his   signature   are   there   on   the

    statement of Ct. Suresh, Ex.PW8/DA and he had not placed any negatives of the

    photographs Mark Z­1 to Z­3. This witness has further deposed that he had taken

    these photographs from his mobile phone. This witness has further deposed that

    he  had not recorded the statement of either the victim or her mother regarding the

    taking of photographs.

64.This witness denied to the suggestion that he had not conducted the investigation

    of this case in a fair manner; or that accused had been falsely implicated in this

    case due to enmity between the complainant and him; Or that accused did not

    commit any wrong act upon the victim; Or that since the accused had refused to

    put his signature on his disclosure statement, therefore, he had not committed any

    offence; Or that he did not visit the spot; Or that for this reason he had not seized

    anything from the spot; Or that offence was committed upon the victim by the

    brother­in­law of the complainant.   Thereafter, P.E. Was closed and case was

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                        22/3
     fixed for recording of statement of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C.



    STATEMENT OF ACCUSED U/S 313 CR.P.C.:
65.After prosecution evidence, statement of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. was recorded

    where   accused   had denied all these evidence and circumstances put to him.

    Accused in his statement u/s 313 Cr. P.C. has deposed that he is innocent and

    falsely implicated in the present case.   Accused further stated that Mordraj had

    entered inside his room and PW Naresh had called the public persons in front of

    his house and at that time, he was sleeping inside his room and he had not done

    any wrong act with the victim.  Accused has preferred to lead D.E. But he could

    not produced defence witnesses, hence, D.E. was closed and case was fixed for

    arguments.


    ARGUMENTS

66.Ld. APP for State, Sh. S.K. Raghuvanshi submitted that prosecution has proved

    its case.   On the statement of PW Smt. Rekha, Ex.PW4/A, FIR Ex.PW1/A was

    registered against accused Sunil @ Monu. Prosecution has examined 16 witnesses

    and proved its case beyond reasonable doubt on fact of kidnapping by accused

    while playing and raped. PW4 prosecutrix is the most material witness.  She has

    supported the case of prosecution.

67.As per statement of prosecutrix, accused had taken her to his tenanted room while

    she   was   playing   in   park   near   her   house   and   committed   wrong   act   upon   her.

    Aforesaid   sole   testimony   of   victim   is   sufficient   to   convict   the   accused   and
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                     23/3
     statement of prosecutrix is trustworthy.  Further, MLC of prosecutrix shows teeth

    bite mark on her cheek.  Other witnesses are officials witnesses. Ld. APP for the

    State  further  submits that since the statement of prosecutrix support the case of

    prosecution, therefore, the present case is squarely covered under the ingredients

    of 363/366/324/377/376 (2) (f) IPC.

68.On these grounds, Ld. APP for the State has submitted that   prosecution has

    proved its case beyond reasonable doubt and prayed for conviction of accused.  



69.On the other hand, Ld. Amicus Curiae for accused submits that as per prosecution

    case date of incident is 04.09.2010 and prosecution has examined 16 witnesses

    and as per story of prosecution, accused had taken, victim aged 07 years when she

    was   playing   in   the   park   near   her   house   to   his   tenanted  room   and  committed

    wrong act upon her.

70.Ld. Amicus Curiae for accused further submits that PW9 ASI Surti and PW11

    Narender   have   deposed   in   their   testimonies   that   public   persons   were   beating

    accused when they had reached at the spot but victim in her statement u/s 164 Cr.

    P.C.   has   deposed   that   her   Modraj   uncle   had   apprehended   the   accused   and

    confined him in a room after locking.

71.Ld.   Amicus   Curiae   for   accused   further   submits   that   statement   of   victim   is

    contradictory to her statement u/s 164 Cr. P.C. and as per MLC of accused, no

    mark of external injury found. 72.Ld. Amicus Curiae for accused further submits that no public persons is witness

    of site plan.

73.Ld.   Amicus   Curiae   for   accused   further   submits   that   MLC   of   victim   has   not

    supported to the case of prosecution.  As per MLC, hymen torn but not bleeding

    which throw doubt upon the case of prosecution.

74.Ld. Amicus Curiae for accused further submits that as per FSL report, human

    semen was detected on exhibit 'l' i.e. underwear of accused and semen could not

    be detected on exhibits '4a', '4b', '4g', '4k(a)', '4k(b), '4k(c)', '4l', '4m', '4n', '4o(a)',

    '4o(b), '4p(a)', '4p(b)' and '4p(c)'.

75.Ld. Amicus Curiae for accused further submits that     there is no signature of

    accused on his disclosure statement.

76.Ld. Amicus Curiae for accused further submits that MLC of accused does not

    show that accused was under the influence of liquor at the time of incident and

    there is no injury on the penis of accused.  Aunty who had dressed up the victim

    has not been examined.

77.Ld.   Amicus   Curiae   for   accused   further   submits   that   I.O.   not   had   collected

    powder, oil etc. from the spot which were allegedly to be used in crime. 78.Ld. Amicus Curiae for accused further submits that PW4 and PW7 have deposed

    in their testimonies that victim and accused were taken to hospital whereas PW

    ASI Surti Ram and PW11 Narender have deposed that they had taken accused to

    the hospital.

79.Ld.   Amicus   Curiae   for  accused   further   submits   that   witnesses   says   that   their

    statements were recorded at police station whereas I.O. says that their statements

    were recorded at spot.

80.Ld.   Amicus   Curiae   for   accused   further   submits   that   dentist   report   is   not   on

    judicial file.

81.Ld. Amicus Curiae for accused further submits that I.O. states that he had taken

    photographs by his mobile phone whereas PW4 states in her cross examination

    that he had given photograph.  Photographs are doubtful.



82.Ld. Amicus Curiae for accused further submits that there are no signature on the

    statement of PW HC Fateh Singh and Ct. Suresh.  On these grounds, ld. counsel

    for accused has prayed for acquittal of accused Sunil @ Monu from the charges.

      

    PERUSAL OF RECORD:
83.Arguments heard. Record perused.   On perusal of record it is revealed that on

    04.09.2010, DD No.29­A was recorded at police station Nand Nagari regarding

    rape upon a girl and same was assigned to ASI Surti Ram.  On receipt of DD, ASI
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                     26/3
     Surti Ram along with Ct. Narender reached at the spot and came to know that

    victim had already been shifted to GTB Hospital by PCR officials and public

    persons/mohalla people had produced accused before ASI Surti Ram.



84.On perusal of record, it is further revealed that ASI Surti Ram had taken accused

    to GTB Hospital for his medical examination and he was medically examined at

    GTB Hospital vide MLC Ex.PW15/A and during medical examination one small

    size ladies purse Ex.P­3 was recovered from his possession and same was seized

    vide seizure memo Ex.PW4/E.  Samples collected during medical examination of

    accused by the doctor were seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW11/A.



85.On perusal of record, it is further revealed that S.I. Manmeet had got the victim

    medically   examined   in   GTB   Hospital   vide   MLC   Ex.PW14/A   and   samples

    collected   by the doctor during medical examination of the victim, were seized

    vide seizure memo Ex.PW1/A.  MLC shows that hymen torn.



86.On   perusal   of   record,   it   is   further   revealed   that   S.I.   Manmeet   had   recorded

    statement of victim vide Ex.PW4/A and put his endorsement vide Ex.PW2/A on

    the   same   and   gave   it   to   Ct.   Narender   for   the   registration   of   FIR   and   FIR

    Ex.PW2/B was registered.

87.On perusal of  record, it  is  further revealed that  I.O. has proved arrest memo

    Ex.PW4/B,   personal   search   memo   Ex.PW4/C   and   disclosure   statement

    Ex.PW4/D of accused Sunil Kumar @ Monu. 88.On perusal of record, it is further revealed that S.I. Manmeet had prepared the site

    plan vide Ex.PW16/A at the instance of PW4 Smt. Rekha.



89.On perusal of record, it is  further revealed that Sh. S.K. Arora, Ld. MM has

    proved statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. vide Ex.PW5/A.



90.On perusal of record, it is further revealed that samples collected during medical

    examination   of   accused   as   well   as   of   victim   were   sent   to   FSL   vide   RC

    Ex.PW13/C.

91. On perusal of record, it is further revealed that  age of prosecutrix is below 12

    years on the date of commission of offence which is proved by admission register

    Ex.PW12/A, admission form Ex.PW12/B and affidavit Ex.PW12/C.



92.On perusal of record, it is further revealed that charge u/s 376 IPC had been

    amended to charge u/s 376 (2) (f) IPC upto fact of that victim was below 12 years

    on the day of incident and other charges remained same.  The options to recall the

    witnesses is given to ld. APP for State and to cross examine to this effect both the

    parties had submitted that they adopt the same who have already been examined

    and they do not want either to recall them or to cross examine them.  



93.On perusal of record it is revealed that   FSL report Ex.PW16/C shows that on

    examination blood was detected on exhibits '2', '4q(a)' and '4q(b)' and semen was

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                 28/3
     detected on exhibit 'l' which is the underwear of accused.



94.Before   reaching  at   any   conclusion   let   the   relevant   sections   i.e.

    363/366/324/377/511/376 (2) (f) IPC be re­produced, which are as under :­  

                      Section 363  IPC:­

                     Punishment   for   kidnapping.  "Whoever   kidnaps   any   person
                     from India or from lawful guardianship, shall be punished with
                     imprisonment   of   either   description   for   a   term   which   may
                     extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine."

                     Section 366 IPC:

                     "Kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her
                     marriage, etc - Whoever kidnaps or abducts any woman with
                     intent that she may be compelled, or knowing it to be likely that
                     she will be compelled, to marry any person against her will, or
                     in order that she may be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse,
                     or knowing it to be likely that she will be forced or seduced to
                     illicit   intercourse,   shall   be   punished   with   imprisonment   of
                     either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and
                     shall also be liable to find, and whoever, by means of criminal
                     intimidation as defined in this Code or of abuse of authority or
                     any   other   method  of   compulsion,   induces   any   woman   to  go
                     from any place with intent that she may be, or knowing that it is
                     likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit intercourse
                     with another person shall also be punishable as aforesaid."



                     Section 324 IPC :­


                    Voluntarily  causing  hurt  by  dangerous weapon  or  means:
                    "Whoever,   except   in   the   case   provided   for   by   Sec.   334,
                    voluntarily causes hurt by means of any instrument for shooting,
                    stabbing, or cutting, or any instrument which, used as a weapon
                    of offence, is likely to cause death, or by means of fire or any
                    heated substance, or by means of any poison or any corrosive
                    substance, or by means of any explosive substance, or by means
                    of any substance which it is deleterious to the human body to

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                    29/3
                     inhale, to swallow, or to receive into the blood, or by means of
                    any   animal,   shall   be   punished   with   imprisonment   of   either
                    description for a term which may extend to three years, or with
                    fine, or with both."
 Section 377 IPC:

                    "Unnatural   offence  :­   whoever   voluntarily   has   carnal
                    intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or
                    animal, shall be punished with ( imprisonment for life ), or with
                    imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
                    to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine."
 Section 511 IPC:

                    Punishment   for   attempting   to   commit   offences   punishable
                    with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment.  Whoever
                    attempts   to   commit  an  offence   punishable  by  this  Code   with
                    imprisonment   for   life   or   imprisonment,   or   to   cause   such   an
                    offence   to   be   committed,   and   in   such   attempt   does   any   act
                    towards the commission of the offence, shall, where no express
                    provision is made by this Code for punishment of such attempt,
                    be punished with imprisonment of any description provided for
                    the  offence,  for  a  term  which  may  extend  to one­half  of  the
                    imprisonment  for life or, as the case may be, one­half of the
                    longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence, or with
                    such fine as is provided for the offence, or with both.

                    Section  376 (2) (f) IPC:

                    Punishment   for   rape   -  (1)   Whoever,   except   in   the   cases
                    provided for by sub­section (2), commits rape shall be punished
                    with imprisonment of either description for a term which shall
                    not be less than seven years but which may be for life or for a
                    term which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to
                    fine unless the woman raped is his own wife and is not under
                    twelve years of age, in which case, he shall be punished with
                    imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
                    to two years or with fine or with both:
                             Provided that the Court may, for adequate and special
                    reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                       30/3
                     imprisonment for a term of less than seven years.
                    (2)Whoever, ­

                    (f) Commits rape on a woman when she is under twelve years
                        of age; or

                    shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which
                    shall not be less than ten years but which may be for life and
                    shall also be liable to fine:
                    Provided that the Court may, for adequate and special reasons
                    to   be   mentioned   in   the   judgment,   impose   a   sentence   of
                    imprisonment of either description for a term of less than ten
                    years.

95.It is  very important to look into the observations made in the judgment '2009 III

    AD (Cr.) DHC 219 CRL. APP. 294/1999 Karan Singh Vs. State' wherein the

    following observation was made:

                        Though   the   report   of   the   gynecologist   pertaining   to   the
                        medical examination of the prosecutrix does not disclose any
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                         31/3
                         evidence of sexual intercourse, yet even in the absence of any
                        corroboration of medical evidence the oral testimony of the
                        prosecutrix, which is found to be cogent, reliable, convincing
                        and trustworthy has to be accepted."

96.In   judgment   titled   as  'Suresh   Kumar   v.   State   of   Haryana,   (P&H)   2004(4)

    R.C.R.(Criminal)   204   :   2004(4)   AICLR   574,   PUNJAB   AND   HARYANA

    HIGH COURT  observed that:


                               18. She has also stated in her statement Ex.PM that
                               blood started oozing out and her clothes got smeared
                               with   blood   but   the   appellants   had   got   her   clothes
                               washed.   The   learned   counsel   for   the   appellants   has
                               also   made   an   attempt   to   demolish   the   case   of   the
                               prosecutrix in the light of the medical evidence where
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                       33/3
                                  no bleeding per vagina was noticed by the lady Dr.
                                 Urmil Dhattarwal. However, the medical evidence and
                                 the   report   of   the   Forensic   Science   Laboratory
                                 establish that the rape has been committed upon her.
                                 On   the   basis   of   condition   of   hymen,   Dr.   Urmil
                                 Dhattarwal   (PW1)   had   initially   stated   that   the
                                 possibility of the intercourse could not be ruled out,
                                 but at the same time it has come in her evidence that
                                 confirmatory report would be given after perusing the
                                 Chemical Examiner's report of posterior vaginal swab.
                                 After perusing the said report, she found that human
                                 semen on salwar and posterior vaginal swab showed
                                 that   intercourse   had   taken   place.   Non­detection   of
                                 blood on the clothes would be of no consequence as
                                 for constituting the offence of rape as only penetration
                                 is sufficient. No doubt, there is no injury noted by the
                                 doctor on the person of the prosecutrix, yet this fact
                                 again   would   not   demolish   the   statement   of   the
                                 prosecutrix.   Absence   of   injury   on   the   person   of
                                 prosecutrix is not necessarily an evidence of falsity of
                                 allegation as held in  State of Rajasthan v. N.K.­The
                                 Accused, 2000(2) RCR(Crl.) 471 (SC). In the light of
                                 the   evidence   discussed   above,   there   is   nothing   to
                                 disbelieve   the   statement   of   the   prosecutrix   made
                                 before   the   Sub­Divisional   Judicial   Magistrate   on
                                 27.5.1994.

    Again  the observation made in AIR 1996 Supreme Court 1393 (1) that:

                               The Courts should examine the broader probabilities of a

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                                34/3
                                case   and   not   get   swayed   by   minor   contradictions   or
                               insignificant   discrepancies   in   the   statement   of   the
                               prosecutrix, which are not of a fatal in nature, to throw out
                               an otherwise reliable prosecution case.   If evidence of the
                               prosecution   inspires   confidence,   it   must   be   relied   upon
                               without seeking corroboration of her statement in material
                               particulars.  If  for some reason the Court finds it difficult to
                               place   implicit   reliance  on  her   testimony,  it   may   look   for
                               evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony, short
                               of   corroboration,   required   in   the   case   of   an   accomplice.
                               The testimony of the prosecutrix must be appreciated in the
                               background of the entire case and the trial Court must be
                               alive to its responsibility and be sensitive while dealing with
                               cases involving sexual molestations."

97.Since the present was registered on the statement of  mother of prosecutrix and in

    her examination before the court prosecutrix had stated herself to be of 08 years

    old and admission register of school also shows her age below 12 years and she

    had further deposed that accused had committed rape upon her.   Even medical

    reports   shows   that   accused   had   committed   intercourse   with     prosecutrix   and

    hymen of prosecutrix was found torn.  Since, the date of birth of prosecutrix  as

    per Ex.PW10/B and Ex.PW10/C is 21.05.2000 which shows that prosecutrix was

    below   12   years     and   statement   of   prosecutrix   is   corroborated   with   medical

    evidence and evidences of other witnesses. Hence, this court does not find any

    ground to discard their testimonies.

98.Since into the fact of present case, fact of medical evidence are consistent with

    evidence   of   prosecutrix   and  other   witnesses.   As   prosecutrix  has   stated   in   her

    examination   that   accused   had   taken   her   from   park   to   his   tenanted   room   and

    committed rape upon her.   Since fact of taking out the prosecutrix without the
State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                             35/3
     consent of her parents has been proved. 

99.Further, it has also come on record that victim was taken by accused at his  house

    where he had committed rape upon the victim.  In the present case, age of accused

    is about 33 years and victim was only six years old.  Non detection of blood on

    the clothes of accused be of no consequences as for constituting the offence of

    rape only penetration is sufficient.  No doubt there is no injury noted by doctor on

    the  person   of   prosecutrix   yet   this   fact   again   would   not   demolish   the   case   of

    prosecution.   Act of rape has also been proved from the statement of victim.

    Statement of prosecutrix, who was 06 years of age has correctly identified the

    accused before this  court who had kidnapped and   committed  rape upon her.

    PW12  Smt. Santosh Kumari, Principal, MC Primary School, Nand Nagari, D­4,

    1st  shift, Delhi, who has proved date of birth of prosecutrix as 07.05.2003 and

    incident had taken place on 04.09.2010.  In that eventuality, prosecutrix can also

    be considered to be less than 12 years at the time of incident.   Hence, there is no

    reason to disbelieve her testimony.

100.A prosecutrix of a sex offence cannot be put on a par with an accomplice.  She

    is in fact a victim of the crime. The Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (In short "the

    Evidence Act") nowhere says that her evidence cannot be accepted unless it is

    corroborated in material particulars.   She is  undoubtedly a competent witness

    under section 118 and her evidence must receive the same weight as is attached to

    an injured in cases of physical violence. 101.Even accused in his statement u/s 313 Cr. P.C.  could not explain as to why he

    has been implicated in the present case.   In his defence he states that he was

    sleeping in his room.  Further, he could not prove evidence in his defence after

    giving him an opportunity.   Claim of accused is not sufficient to presume his

    innocence specifically when the facts and circumstances proved his guilt.   



102.Since it has been proved that   accused has taken victim against her wish and

    without the consent of her parents and had kidnapped a victim with intention that

    victim   may   be   seduced   to   illicit   intercourse   and   committed   rape   and   outrage

    modesty of the victim.

103.In reference to the arguments of ld. Amicus Curiae for accused that the lady

    who had dressed up the victim had not been examined by the prosecution. 



104.It is not important that which person has not been examined as witness but more

    important is that the witness who has been examined should be believed or not.

    Into   the   facts   and   circumstances   of   the   present   case,   from   the   testimony   of

    prosecutrix   and   her   mother,   it   had   also   come   on   record   that   accused   had

    committed   wrong   act   upon   her.   Testimony   of   prosecturix   had   been   made

    voluntarily.  Hence, her testimony  inspired the confidence of this court.



105.It is equally settled that if testimony of child witness is a voluntarily expression

    and   is   an   accurate   impression   of   the   same,   no   corroboration   of   testimony   is

    required. Hon'ble Apex Court in judgment '(1993)  2  Supreme Court Cases -     State of Himachal Pradesh Vs  Raghubir Singh' where it has held that :
106.Since after considering the facts  available  on record and testimony  of  PWs.

    MLC of victim also had proved that accused had caused teeth bite on her cheek

    and committed rape after kidnapping the victim from lawful guardianship.



107.Taking into the consideration the circumstances of this case, this court comes to

    the   conclusion   that   prosecution   has   proved   its   case   beyond   reasonable   doubt

    against accused Sunil @ Monu for offence punishable u/s 363/366/324/376 (2) (f)

    IPC.    Accordingly, this court held guilty accused Sunil @ Monu for the offences

    u/s 363/366/324/376 (2) (f) IPC.

108.Fact in respect of section 377  IPC read with 511 IPC could not be proved by

    prosecution.  Hence, accused Sunil Kumar @ Monu is acquitted from section 377

    IPC read with 511 IPC by giving him benefit of doubt.

    PRONOUNCED IN THE OPEN

    COURT ON THIS 07.03.2013


                                                                                           (RAMESH KUMAR­II)
                                                     ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE­01/NORTH EAST
                                                                 KARKARDOOMA COURTS:  DELHI

State Vs. Sunil Kumar @ Monu
SC No.02/2011                                                                                                       38/3
 