Case of Prosecution:

1.             On 05.08.2010 complainant Sh. Nazim Ali came to police station 

Sunlight Colony and lodged a complaint regarding kidnapping of her daughter 

namely   'X'   (name   withheld   to   keep   her   identity   confidential).   Statement   of 


SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 1 of 19
 complainant recorded at the police station.  After recording his statement, case 

under   Section   363   of   IPC   was   registered.     Prosecutrix   was   searched   by   the 

police.   During the investigation of the case, on the basis of telephone calls on 

the mobile phone of complainant one unidentified number i.e. 9810526033 was 

traced.     A   call   was   made   by   the   police   on   the   aforesaid   number   and   the 

receiver/person told them that prosecutrix is with him at his Village Chandni, 

Banbasa,   Champawat,   Uttarakhand.     Complainant   also   had   a   talk   with   her 

daughter/prosecutrix as well as with the receiver/person.   On 07.08.2010, the 

aforesaid   boy/person   left   the   prosecutrix   near   the   gali   of   house   of   the 

complainant.  Prosecutrix told her parents that accused Tilak Chand took her on 

the   pretext  of  marriage  with  her  and  committed  sexual  intercourse  upon  her 

without   her   consent.     Prosecutrix   was   got   medically   examined   at   AIIMS 

Hospital by the police and case under Section 366/376 of IPC was registered 

against the accused Tilak Chand.  Accused was arrested from his native village 

and his disclosure statement was recorded.  Medical examination of accused was 

also conducted at AIIMS Hospital by the police.   Exhibits were sent to FSL, 

Rohini for examination.   Statement of prosecutrix under Section 164 of Cr.P.C 

was got recorded by the police.   Statement of witnesses were recorded by the 

Investigating officer and after completion of investigation, charge sheet under 

Section 376/363/ 366 of IPC was filed against the accused in the court.

2.              Since the offence under Section 376 IPC is exclusively triable by 

the Court of Sessions, therefore, after supply of documents, Ld. Metropolitan 

Magistrate committed the case to the court of Sessions.




3.              Prima facie case under section 363/366/376 of IPC was made out 

against accused. Charge under Section 363/366/376 of IPC was framed upon the 

accused by my Ld. Predecessor vide order dated 22.12.2010 to which he pleaded 

not guilty and claimed trial.  
Witnesses Examined:
4.              In support of its case, prosecution has examined eleven witnesses 

in all. The brief summary of the deposition of the prosecution witnesses is as 

under:
Material Witnesses:
5.              PW­2 is Sh. Nazim Ali, complainant of the case.  He stated that on 

04.08.2010 his daughter/prosecutrix aged about 15 years had gone to market to 

purchase a notebook from the shop but she did not return back home.  He tried 

to search her but she could not be traced.  Thereafter, he made a complaint in the 

police   station   Sunlight   Colony   regarding   kidnapping   of   his   daughter   vide 

Ex.PW2/A. He stated that he had given his mobile phone number 9717784740 to 

the police and police traced the accused on the basis of his telephone calls.  On 

08.08.2010, his daughter returned home at about 10.30/11 am and disclosed that 

accused   Tilak   chand   had   taken   her   to   R.K.   Puram.     Thereafter,  next  day   he 

produced his daughter before the police at PP Sunlight colony.  Police recorded 

her   statement   and   took   his   daughter   to   AIIMS   Hospital   for   her   medical 

examination.   Statement of her daughter was also recorded by the Magistrate. 

On 08.08.2010, complainant called the accused to talk on the false pretext of 

marriage   of   his   daughter   with   him   and   when   accused   came   to   his   house, 

SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 3 of 19
 complainant informed the police and accused Tilak Chand was arrested by the 

police.   Police   took   him   to   police   station.     PW­2   has   correctly   identified   the 

accused in the court.  He further stated that his daughter told him that accused 

had committed rape upon her in his village.  
6.              PW­6  is prosecutrix herself.   She stated that she was studying in 

10th class at South Delhi Public School.  She used to go by rickshaw and in the 

way accused Tilak Chand used to harass her.  On 04.08.2010, at about 8/8.30 pm 

she was going to the shop to take her test copy when accused met her on the way 

and asked her to accompany him but she refused.   Accused told her that her 

parents are standing at some distance and wanted to see and talk to her.   Then 

accused took her to the house of his brother in law (Jija) at R.K. Puram and 

committed rape upon her.  She cried but nobody came to rescue her.  The next 

morning,   accused   gave   her   a   glass   of   water   and   after   that   she   became 

unconscious.   When she regained consciousness she was told by someone that 

she is in the village of accused.   Accused committed rape upon her there also 

and on her repeated request he got her connected to her father on phone. The 

accused also had conversation with her father and thereafter, accused brought 

her back to Delhi and left her near her house.  She along with her father went to 

police station and her medical examination was conducted by the police.   She 

further stated that accused had taken her to village Banbasa, Uttarakhand.  On 

08.08.2010 she was sitting at her house and accused was sitting in another room 

with   the   police.     She   told   the   police   that   accused   is   the   same   person   who 

committed rape upon her.     Her statement was recorded by the police in this 

regard and accused was arrested.  

SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 4 of 19
 7.              PW­11  is SI Rambir Singh, Investigating officer of the case who 

arrested   the   accused,   got   accused   and   prosecutrix   medically   examined   and 

proved all the memos etc. in this regard.
Formal Witnesses:­

8.              PW­3  is   Sh.   Devender   Kumar   Jangala,   Metropolitan   Magistrate 

who   recorded   the   statement   of   prosecutrix   under   Section   164   of   Cr.P.C   and 

proved the same on record. 
9.              PW­5 is Sh. B. S. Rana, Accounts officer from South Delhi Public 

School, Defence colony, New Delhi who brought the original admission form, 

birth   certificate   issued   from   the   Registrar   and   the   original   admission   and 

withdrawal   register   etc.   of   the   prosecutrix   and   has   duly   proved   on   record 

Ex.PW5/A to Ex.PW5/E in this regard.  
10.             PW­7  is HC Lakhan Singh, Duty officer who recorded the FIR 

Ex.PW7/A and proved on record the endorsement on rukka Ex.PW7/B.  

11.             PW­8 is Ct. Praveen who joined the investigation of the case along 

with the Investigating officer, arrested the accused, got the accused medically 

examined and proved on record all the memos in this regard. 

12.             PW­9  is W/Ct. Sapna Yadav who joined the investigation of the 

case along with the Investigating officer, got the prosecutrix medically examined 

and has proved on record all the memos in this regard. 

13.             PW­10 is Sh. Vishal Gaurav, Nodal Officer, Bharti Airtel Limited 

who brought the call details from 04.08.2010 to 08.08.2010 of mobile phone 

number   9810526033   and   has   duly   proved   on   record   memos   Ex.PW10/A   to 

Ex.PW10/C in this regard.
14.             PW­1  is Dr. Ashish Jain who conducted medical examination of 

accused and duly proved on record his MLC report Ex.PW1/A.  

15.             PW­4  is   Dr.   Manu   who   conducted   the   medical   examination   of 

patient/prosecutrix and duly proved on record his MLC report Ex.PW4/A. 

Statement & Defence of accused:
16.             Statement   of   accused   under   Section   313   Cr.P.C   was   recorded 

wherein he denied the case of prosecution and stated that he is innocent and has 

been falsely implicated in the present case.   Accused further chose not to lead 

evidence in his defence.  
Arguments of Ld. APP for state:­

17.             Ld. APP for state argued that as per the school record and school 

certificate it is proved that prosecutrix  is minor.   It is stated that during the 

personal search of the accused one mobile phone no. 9810526033 was recovered 

from which the accused had made a phone call by the name of Irfan.  It is stated 

that the accused has misrepresented his name as Irfan to the prosecutrix and also 

used this phone which was recovered from his possession which was also used at 

Banbasa village.  It is stated that the prosecutrix has duly identified the accused 

and her MLC also proves her version of sexual intercourse. It is stated that there 

is no suggestion from the side of accused that someone else by the name of Irfan 

had committed rape upon the prosecutrix and now this plea cannot be taken by 

the   accused.   It   is   stated   that   the   case   diary   of   the   IO   also   proves   this 

misrepresentation of the accused .   The call details of the mobile phone also 

proves his involvement.   The accused does not dispute his personal search in 

SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 6 of 19
 which this mobile phone is shown to be recovered.  
Arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel for accused:­

18.             On the other hand, Ld. Defence counsel for accused argued that 

there   is   contradiction   in   the   statement   of   the   prosecutrix.   Further,   she   has 

admitted that  she does not raise any alarm in the bus or in the van by which she 

was taken to Banbasa Village which shows that she was a consenting party.  She 

had taken mobiles phone from the accused which shows her acquaintance and 

consent.   The   clothes   which   were   seized   were   new   clothes   and   there   is 

contradiction on this point in the statement of prosecutrix.  It is stated that there 

is contradiction in the statement of PW­6 with regard to the duration of stay of 

the prosecutrix in Prayas, NGO. Factualy, she stayed for one day in Prayas but 

her statement was recorded after 4­5 days.  It is stated that Jija of the accused is 

not residing at R.K. Puram and he is residing at Katwaria Sarai as is revealed 

from   the   arrest   memo   of   the   accused   and   as   such,   the   statement   of   the 

prosecutrix that she met Jija of the accused at R.K. Puram where the rape was 

committed is falsified. It is stated that the site plan was prepared at the instance 

of the accused and as such the same is not admissible.  It is stated that the FSL 

result is negative.  The person who had asked the prosecutrix and the accused at 

R.K. Puram to go upstairs is not made a witness.   It is stated that the doctor 

suggested   in   the   MLC   of   the   prosecutrix   that   the   bony   age   X­ray   of   the 

prosecutrix should be conducted which is not being done.  Ld. Counsel for the 

accused has referred to the case of Narbada Devi Vs Birendra Kumar Jaiswal  

Crl. Appeal No. 315/1998 decided on 03.11.2003 and Satpal Singh Vs State of  

Haryana Crl.A.No. 763/2008 decided on 28.07.2010 & Allamelu Vs State 2011  

SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 7 of 19
 STPL (Web) of SC, Rahim Beg and Anthr. Vs State of UP (1972)3 SCC 759,  

Devusamal Vs  State  Crl.A.No.  412/2000  decided  by Honble   High Court  of  

Delhi, Birad Mal Singhvi Vs Anand Purohit AIR 1988 SC 1996, Vishnu Vs  

State of Maharashtra (2006) 1 SCC 283,     Rajoo & Others Vs State of MP  

2009(1) RCT (Crl) 310, Temeezuddin @ Tammu Vs State of ( NCT ) of Delhi  

2009 (4) RCR (Criminal) 345.
19.            I have heard Ld. Defence counsel for accused as well as Ld. APP  

for state and have carefully perused the record. 
Conclusion:­

20.        Before appreciating the facts of this case,it is necessary to know the 

ingredients of the offence by resorting to the provisions of sec.375 read with sec.

376 IPC. Section 375 Rape provides:­ " A man is said to commit "rape" who, 

except in the case hereinafter excepted, has sexual intercourse with a woman 

under circumstances falling under any of the six following descriptions:­

               First­ Against her will.
               Secondly­ Without her consent.
               Thirdly­ With her consent, when her consent has been obtained by 

putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of death or of hurt.

               Fourthly­ With her consent, when the man knows that he is not her 

husband, and that her consent is given because she believes that he is another 

man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married.

               Fifthly­  With   her   consent,   when,   at   the   time   of   giving   such 

consent, by reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the administration 



SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 8 of 19
 by   him   personally   or   through   another   of   any   stupefying   or   unwholesome 

substance, she is unable to understand the nature and consequences of that to 

which she gives consent.  
                 Sixthly­ With or without her consent, when she under sixteen years 

of age. 
                 Explanation­  Penetration   is   sufficient   to   constitute   the   sexual 

intercourse necessary to the offence of rape.  
                 Exception­  Sexual intercourse  by  a  man  with  his  own  wife,  the 

wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.  

21.              "Rape" is the act of physically forcing a woman to have sexual 

intercourse: an act of sexual intercourse that is forced upon a woman against her 

will.     "Statutory   rape"   is   a   sexual   intercourse   with   a   girl   under   the   age   of 

consent, which age varies in different States from ten to eighteen years. 

                 The offence of rape in its simplest term is 'the ravishment of a 

woman, without her consent, by force, fear or fraud', or as 'the carnal knowledge 

of a woman by force against her will? 'Rape' or 'Raptus' is when a man hath 

carnal knowledge of a woman by force and against her will (Co. lett. 123­b); or 

as expressed more fully, 'rape' is the carnal knowledge of any woman, above the 

age of particular years, against her will; or of a woman child, under that age, 

with or against her will. Section 375 IPC defines rape. This Section requires the 

essentials:­

                      1.  Sexual intercourse by a man with woman.
                       2. The sexual intercourse must be under circumstances falling 

under any of the six clauses in Section 375 IPC.  

SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 9 of 19
 22.               In MANU/SC/7825/2008 Moti Lal Vs. State of M.P., the Apex  

Court had observed that :­

                    "a   rapist   not   only   violates   the   victim's   privacy   and  
          personal integrity, but inevitably causes serious psychological  
          as well as physical harm in the process. Rape is not merely a  
          physical   assault   ­­   it   is   often   destructive   of   the   whole  
          personality of the victim. A murderer destroys the physical body  
          of his victim, a rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless  
          female.       The         court,     therefore,     shoulders       a     great  
          responsibility while trying an accused on charges of rape. They  
          must deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. The Courts  
          should examine the broader probabilities of a case and not get  
          swayed by minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies  
          in   the   statement   of   the   prosecutrix,   which   are   not   of   a   fatal  
          nature, to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution case. "

23.       The two issues to be determined on the basis of evidence adduced by the 

prosecution are the age of the prosecutrix and whether she was a consenting 

party to the incident or not.
24.       Age of the prosecutrix:­      To prove the age of the prosecutrix the 

prosecution has examined PW­5 B.S. Rana, Accounts officer from South Delhi 

Public   School,   Defence   colony   who   had   produced   certified   copies   of   the 

admission form, birth certificate of the prosecutrix issued from Registrar , Birth 

and Death, Municipal Corporation Bareily which was tendered by the father of 

the prosecutrix at the time of taking admission.  The entries in the admissions 

register of the school bearing the signatures and seal of the principal of the 

school. He has also produced a certificate issued by the principal of the school 

to the effect that prosecutrix is a student of class X in their school.  As per the 



SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 10 of 19
 school records and the birth certificate, the date of birth of the prosecutrix was 

30.05.1995. The offence was committed on 04.08.2010.  

               The Ld. Counsel for the accused has argued that the school records 

are not duly proved by the prosecution under section 35 of Indian Evidence Act 

as the documents are required to be proved by the person who prepared it and 

the  authenticity  of the entry would depend as to on whose instructions such 

entry stood recorded and what was the source of information.  

              The   legal   point   is   now   well   settled   by   the  judgment   of   Hon'ble  

Supreme Court In the case of Shah Nawaz Vs State of UP & Anothers (2011)  

13 SCC 751, wherein the Apex court has held,  though in the context of age 

determination of juvenile in conflict with law under J.J.Act but   the principle 

holds good in case of age determination of prosecutrix, that entry of date of 

birth in school register or school leaving certificate or certificate of date of birth 

from   the   school   first   attended   or   birth   certificate   of   MCD   are   valid   for 

determining the age.
              Similarly, in the case of Murugan @ Setu Vs State of Tamilnadu 2011  

Crl. Law Journal 2948, the apex court has held that the documents made anti 

litem motam can be relied upon safely , when such documents are admissible 

under section 35 of Indian Evidence Act.  In the said case of Murugan @ Setu (  

Supra), the apex court had quoted with approval the observations of Apex court 

in case of Madan Mohan Singh and others Vs Rajnikant and anothers , AIR  

2010 SC 2933, wherein it was held that while considering such an issue and the 

documents admissible under section 35 of Indian Evidence Act, the court has a 



SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 11 of 19
 right   to   examine   the   probative   value   of   the   contents   of   the   document. 

Authenticity of the entries may also depend upon whose information such entry 

stood recorded and what was his source of information, meaning thereby, that 

such documents may also require corroboration in some cases.  

25.            In the case of  Murugan(supra)  also, the court relied upon   the 

entries in school register and the birth certificate issued by MCD.  The court has 

observed that :­

              " In the instant case, in the birth certificate issued by the  
              Municipality,   the   birth   was   shown   to   be   as   on  
              30.03.1984;   registration   was   made   on   05.04.1984;  
              registration number has also been shown; and names of  
              the   parents   and   their   address   have   correctly   been  
              mentioned.     Thus,   there   is   no   reason   to   doubt   the  
              veracity   of   the   said   certificate.   More   so,   the   school  
              certificate has been issued by the Head Master on the  
              basis   of   the   entry   made   in   the   school   register   which  
              corroborates   the   contents   of   the   certificate   of   birth  
              issued   by   the   Municipality.     Both   these   entries   in   the  
              school   register   as   well,   as   in   the   Municipality   came  
              much before the criminal prosecution started and those  
              entires   stand   fully   supported   and   corroborated   by   the  
              evidence   of   Parimala   (PW­15),   the   mother   of   the  
              prosecutrix.  She had been cross examined at length but  
              nothing could be elicited to doubt her testimony.   The  
              defence   put   a   suggestion   to   her   that   she   was   talking  
              about   the   age   of   her   younger   daughter   and   not   of  
              Shankari   (PW­4),   which   she   flatly   denied.     Her  
              deposition remained un­shaken and is fully reliable."
                
26.            In the case of Vishnu Vs State of Maharashtra wherein it is held  

that :­


SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 12 of 19
               "for determining the age of the child , the best evidence is of  
              his   /her   parents,   if   it   is   supported   by   un­impeccable  
              documents.  In case the date of birth depicted in the school  
              register/certificate   stands   belied   by   the   un­impeccable  
              evidence   of   reliable   person   and   contemporaneous  
              documents   like   date   of   birth   register   of   MCD,   govt.  
              hospital/nursing   home   certificate   etc.   ,   the   entry   in   the  
              school register is to be discarded."
            However, in our case as per the statement of PW­5 the birth certificate 

issued   by   Registrar,   Birth   and   Death,   Municipal   Corporation,   Bareily   was 

tendered by the father of the prosecutrix at the time of her admission in the 

school and on the basis of the said certificate given by her father the date of the 

prosecutrix is recorded in the school records as 30.05.1995.  Hence, the school 

records are based on the birth certificate issued by the Municipal Corporation, 

Bareily.  The father of the prosecutrix in his deposition had given the same date 

of birth of his daughter and had even denied the suggestions given to him that 

her daughter is more than 18 years of age. There is no ground to dispute or doubt 

the date of birth as recorded in school records and duly corroborated by the birth 

certificate issued by Municipality because at that time it was not comprehended 

that the parents of a child would falsely get the age of the child recorded in the 

school records knowing that at one future moment they may require this in some 

criminal case. 
               The   law   point   deduced   from   all   the   authorities   cited   by   Ld. 

Counsel for  the accused    lay down that the  date  of birth  depicted  in school 

records if based on un­impeccable evidence and the entries made on the basis of 

information given by the parents of the child and duly recorded by an official of 


SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 13 of 19
 the school in the discharge of his official duties, the same is reliable .  

               Hence, in view of above discussion from the statement of PW­5 

duly corroborated by the school record prepared by the principal of the school 

and duly identified and produced in the court, the birth certificate issued by 

Municipal Corporation of Bareily coupled with the statement of father of the 

prosecutrix and the prosecutrix herself, it is proved that on the date of offence 

04.08.2010 prosecutrix was less than 16 years of age  and was a minor.  

27.    Consent of the prosecutrix:­  As per the statement of prosecutrix the 

accused used to harass her and on 04.08.2010 at about 8/8.30 pm when she was 

going to the market for taking the test copy, the accused met her on the way and 

asked her to accompany him which was refused by the prosecutrix and then he 

further told to meet his parents who wants to speak regarding their marriage 

which was again refused by the prosecutrix.   On this, the accused further told 

her that he will not harass her anymore but once she should meet his parents and 

then he took prosecutrix to R.K. Puram where he committed rape upon her and 

thereafter, make her remained seated there on the terrace through out the night. 

In the morning, he offered a glass of water after consuming which she became 

unconscious after which she was taken to the village of the accused where also 

the   accused   committed   sexual   intercourse   with   her   twice   against   her   wish. 

Similar statement was made by the prosecutrix in her statement under section 

164 Cr.P.C made before the magistrate.  Nothing adverse came out in the cross 

examination of the prosecutrix to prove that she was a consenting party to the 

physical   relations.     The   submissions   of   Ld.   defence   counsel   that   she   has 

admitted in her cross that accused had gifted her a mobile does not go to prove 


SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 14 of 19
 that she had given her consent for rape.  Similarly, non raising of noise in the bus 

on way back to Delhi also do not go to conclusively prove consent on the part of 

prosecutrix.   Even   otherwise,   as   the   prosecutrix   was   minor,   her   consent   is 

immaterial.
28.           Medical Evidence:­   The prosecution has examined PW­4 Dr. Manu 

who had proved the MLC of the prosecutrix in which her hymen was found 

torned.  Ld. Counsel for the accused has placed much reliance on the FSL result 

however, the said FSL result was never put by him in the cross examination of 

any witness of the prosecution and as such he cannot now rely upon the FSL 

result.   Further, the non appearance of any injury marks on the person of the 

prosecutrix is not suggestive of consentual sex, as is held in catena of judgments 

by Apex court.  
29.              Identity of the accused:­  The accused has been duly identified by 

the prosecutrix in her statement before the court. There is nothing on record to 

show animosity for false implication of the accused by the prosecutrix.  Even in 

the   statement   of   the   prosecutrix   made   under   section   164   of   Cr.P.C   she   had 

named this accused.   Ld. Counsel for accused has argued that the accused has 

been connected with this case only on the basis of one mobile phone which was 

planted upon the accused.  
                The   prosecution   story   is   that   when   the   prosecutrix   was   in   the 

possession of the accused, on the insistence/cries of the prosecutrix, he made a 

phone   call   from   his   mobile   phone   number   9810526033   to   the   father   of   the 

prosecutrix and had agreed to leave the prosecutrix at her house on 07.08.2010. 

The prosecutrix was left at the house on 07.08.2010 and after leaving her in front 


SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 15 of 19
 of   her   house   the   accused   ran   away.     Again   father   of   the   prosecutrix,   at   the 

instance of the police called the accused on his mobile and asked him to come to 

his house.   The police laid a trap and when the accused came, he was caught 

hold by the  police and  when  he was made to sit in one  of the  room of the 

complainant, the prosecutrix had identified him.     Hence, the prosecutrix had 

identified the accused at the time of his arrest as well as in the court and she has 

also named him in the statement under section 164 Cr.P.C.   

                 Ld. Counsel for the accused has argued that in the history given 

before the doctor, the prosecutrix had named a boy Irfan as the person who had 

sexual intercourse with her and as such, the identity of the accused becomes 

doubtful.  On the other hand, Ld. APP for the state had refuted this submission 

referring to the case diary of the IO stating that the accused had misrepresented 

his name to the prosecutrix as Irfan and even to the police when he was called on 

his mobile in his village on 07.08.2010.  
                 Heard. The CD refered to by the Ld. Additional Public Prosecutor 

is   not   subjected   to   the   test   of   cross   examination   and   cannot   be   relied   upon 

however, mere quoting of a name is immaterial when the prosecutrix time and 

again had identified the accused at the time of arrest, in the court and has also 

named him in the statement under section 164 of Cr.P.C. The testimony of the 

prosecutrix is not shaken in the cross examination. The accused has never taken 

any objections nor questioned the prosecutrix about the name as disclosed by her 

in the MLC to the doctor.   For the first time, this  objection is taken by the 

accused and as such the same has no weightage in view of the identification of 

the accused by the prosecutrix.  As observed earlier there is nothing to prove that 


SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 16 of 19
 due to some enmity the prosecutrix had named the accused nor the accused had 

put   such   a   defence.     Hence,   from   the   statement   of   the   prosecutrix   and   the 

recovery of the said mobile number 9810526033 which was recovered in the 

personal search of the accused and which mobile was used by the accused for 

calling the father of the prosecutrix clearly prove the identity of the accused in 

the offence beyond the reasonable doubt.  
30.            It is settled law that the conviction can be based on the sole testimony 

of the prosecutrix if the same is found reliable.  Reference can be laid from the 

observations of Apex Court in the case titled as  Radhu Vs State of Madhya  

Pradesh 2007, Crl. Law Journal 4704 wherein Hon'ble Supreme court has held 

that:­

           " It is now well settled that a finding of guilt in a case of rape,  
           can   be   based   on   the   uncorroborated   evidence   of   the  
           prosecutrix. The very nature of offence makes it difficult to get  
           direct corroborating evidence. The evidence of the prosecutrix  
           should not be rejected on the basis of minor discrepancies and  
           contradictions. If the victim of rape states on oath that she was  
           forcibly   subjected   to   sexual   intercourse,   her   statement   will  
           normally be accepted, even if it is uncorroborated, unless the  
           material on record requires drawing of an inference that there  
           was   consent   or   that   the   entire   incident   was   improbable   or  
           imaginary. Even if there is consent, the act will still be a 'rape',  
           if the girl is under 16 years of age. It is also well settled that  
           absence of injuries on the private parts of the victim will not by  
           itself   falsify   the   case   of   rape,   nor   construed   as   evidence   of  
           consent. Similarly, the opinion of a doctor that there was no  
           evidence   of   any   sexual   intercourse   or   rape,   may   not   be  
           sufficient to disbelieve the accusation of rape by the victim.  
           Bruises, abrasions and scratches on the victim especially on  
           the forearms, writs, face, breast, thighs and back are indicative  

SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 17 of 19
             of struggle and will support the allegation of sexual assault.  
            The courts should, at the same time, bear in mind that false  
            charges of rape are not uncommon. There have also been rare  
            instances where a parent has persuaded a gullible or obedient  
            daughter   to   make   a   false   charge   of   a   rape   either   to   take  
            revenge   or   extort   money   or   to   get   rid   of   financial   liability.  
            Whether there was rape or not would depend ultimately on the  
            facts and circumstances of each case."
31.         The testimony of the prosecutrix is not based on the same footing as an 

accomplice   and   the   same   stands   on   a   higher   footing.     The   statement   of   the 

prosecutrix is duly corroborated by the medical evidence, statement of the father 

of the prosecutrix and other evidence on record which inspire confidence and it 

is  proved  that  it was  the    accused  who  has  taken  the  prosecutrix  out  of  the 

keeping of the lawful guardianship of her parents without their consent and the 

accused had committed rape upon the prosecutrix who is a minor without her 

consent. 
32.     Offence of kidnapping and abduction under section 363/366 IPC:­

                 Section  363 of IPC  defines  that :­ whoever kidnaps any  person 

from or from lawful guardianship, shall be punished with imprisonment of either 

description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable 

to fine. 
                 The essential ingredients of section 366 of IPC are :­ 

                 (a) A person kidnaps or abducts any woman. 
                 (b) The act is done­

                 (i) with intent that she may be compelled to marry any person against 

her will, or


SC No. 160/10                   State Vs Tilak Chand                    Page No. 18 of 19
                  (ii) knowing it to be likely that she will be so compelled, or

                    (iii)   in   order   that   she   may   be   forced   or   seduced   to   illicit 

intercourse, or 

                  (iv) knowing it to be likely that she will be so forced or seduced. 

                 The statement of prosecutrix duly proves that she was kidnapped 

from the lawful guardianship of her parents without their consent and she was 

kidnapped for the  purpose  that she may  be compelled for  marriage or  illicit 

intercourse.   
33.     Defence of the accused:­   The accused in his defence has admitted that 

he used to talk to the prosecutrix on her mobile phone number 9555342055. 

This statement proves that he was already acquainted with the prosecutrix prior 

to the incident.  He has stated that he was falsely implicated by the prosecutrix 

but nowhere he has alleged the reason of his false implication by the prosecutrix 

in his defence. 
34.     Conclusion:­  In view of the above said discussion, prosecution has been 

fully able to prove its case under Section 363/366/376 of IPC against the accused 

and   is   therefore,   held   guilty   and   convicted   for   the   offence   under   Section 

363/366/376 of IPC.   
ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT
ON  22.03.2013.