              The facts in brief of the prosecution case are
that Smt. ____X_______, here in after referred to as the
prosecutrix,     was   married      with    Sh.   ______Y_____       on
19.02.2010 according to Hindu rites and customs. Accused
is brother in law (jija) of ______Y_____. Sh. ______Y______
used to work with the accused at Surya Vihar, Shahadat
Pur. After marriage the prosecutrix was brought in the
house of the accused alongwith her husband and they
started residing there. On 20.05.2010 when her husband
was away for work of the accused, the accused came in
the room of the prosecutrix and asked her to prepare tea.
 Accordingly, she brought a cup of tea but accused insisted
that she should bring another cup of tea for her and
accordingly she brought another cup. Accused Lokesh in
the absence of the prosecutrix mixed some material in the
tea. After consuming tea, she started feeling giddiness and
she lost her consciousness. Accused, taking benefit of her
unconsciousness,         raped    her     and       also    took     some
photographs. When she regained consciousness she found
that her body even did not have single cloth. She realized
that the accused had dishonoured her. She started
weeping and waiting her husband who did not return.
Instead,      accused    again    came     there      and    when      she
confronted him as to why he committed wrong act with
her, he disclosed that he was having an eye on her and on
getting    an    opportunity     he     fulfilled    his    dreams.        He
threatened to defame her by putting the photographs on
Internet and also threatened to kill her parents in case she
disclose the incident to anyone. She was terrorized and
thereafter, accused started visiting her room and started
committing      sexual    intercourse      with     her     without        her
consent. On 24.10.2010 she was not well and on the
pretext of medical check up she came out from the house
of accused and arrived at her parents house and disclosed
all the facts to her mother. She also disclosed that she was
pregnant of eight months and the child in her womb was of

SC No.89/13             State vs. Lokesh Kumar              Page 2 of 33
 accused. Her mother disclosed all these facts to her father
who had a talk with the accused and a person named Raj
Kumar.        They gave beating to her father and also
threatened to kill the family members. Thereafter, the
matter    was    reported    to   the    police.      Police     recorded
statement of prosecutrix and registered FIR No. 116/11 at
P.S. Karawal Nagar u/s 328/376/506/34 IPC. Accused was
arrested. His arrest memo and personal search memo were
prepared.      He   was     interrogated        and    his     disclosure
statement was recorded. Both the prosecutrix as well as
the accused were got medically examined in GTB Hospital.
Doctor handed over samples after medical examination
which were taken into possession. Doctor also opined that
samples of the prosecutrix should be taken after delivery of
child for DNA test. The prosecutrix was produced before Ld.
M.M. for recording her statement u/s 164 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, here in after referred to as the Code
and that was recorded. Samples of the child after delivery
and accused were taken and sent for DNA testing at FSL
and report was collected wherein it was reported that the
prosecutrix and the accused are biological mother and
father of the child.      IO recorded statements of witnesses
and filed a charge sheet against the accused for his trial
for the offences punishable u/s 328/376/506/34 IPC.
 2.            Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate after supplying of
copies of charge sheet and documents to the accused
committed this case to the court of sessions and the case
was assigned to himself by Ld. Additional Sessions Judge
Incharge North East District, Karkardooma Courts, Delhi.
3.            Vide order dated 23.08.2011 the court opined
that there was sufficient ground for framing of charge
against the accused for the offences punishable u/s
328/376/506 IPC. Accordingly, charge against the accused
for his trial for the said offences was framed and read over
to him in vernacular language. He pleaded not guilty and
claimed trial.
4.            The prosecution, in order to prove its case
examined prosecutrix as PW1; Smt. __Z__, mother of the
prosecutrix as PW2; Dr. Divya, Senior Resident, GTB
Hospital as PW3; Ct. Paltu as PW4; Ct. Ashok as PW5; HC
Shailender Singh as PW6; Ms. Shashi Bala, Sr. Scientific
Officer (Biology), FSL, Rohini as PW7; and ASI Smt. Santosh
Sharma as PW8.
5.            Vide   order   No.20/372-512/F.3.(4)/ASJ/01/2013
dated 04.01.2013, on constitution of Special Fast Track
Courts for trial of sexual offences, Hon'ble District &

SC No.89/13            State vs. Lokesh Kumar     Page 4 of 33
 Sessions Judge, transferred this case to this court.
6.            After closing of prosecution evidence statement
of the accused u/s 313 of the Code was recorded. All the
material and incriminating evidence was put to him.
Accused admitted that ______Y_____ was his brother in law
(sala) and the prosecutrix was his wife and that ______Y____
and prosecutrix were married on 19.02.2010 and that
______Y_____ used to work with him and that after their
marriage ______Y_____ brought his wife to his house and
they started residing there. He also admitted that child
which the prosecutrix was carrying in her womb was his
and that the prosecutrix lodged a complaint against him on
22.04.2011 and that FIR of the present case was registered
against him and that he was arrested on 22.4.2010 and
that he was produced before GTB Hospital for his medical
examination and MLC EX.C1 was prepared and that
prosecutrix gave birth to a female child on 03.6.2011 and
IO got the paternity of the child determined through DNA
test and that it was reported that he was biological father
of the child. He further admitted that witnesses correctly
identified him. He pleaded that he had been supporting the
parents of the prosecutrix as well as the prosecutrix
financially. He also took the prosecutrix to Agra with the
consent of her parents. He did not commit rape and the

SC No.89/13           State vs. Lokesh Kumar     Page 5 of 33
 present case was registered when he stopped giving
money to them. He paid Rs. Two Lakhs to the parents of
prosecutrix on 15.02.2011. He denied rest of the evidence.
7.            In support of his defence, accused   examined
Sh. Onkar Singh as DW1 and Sh. Suresh Kumar Malkhani as
DW2.
8.            I have heard arguments addressed by Ld.
Additional Public Prosecutor for the State, Ld. Counsel for
complainant and Ld. Defence Counsel for accused           and
perused file including rulings submitted by counsels for the
parties.
9.            It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Defence
Counsel that there is delay in reporting the matter to the
police. The alleged date of incident is 20.05.2010 but it
was reported to the police only on 22.04.2011. Delay has
not been explained.
10.           In support of his arguments, Ld. Defence
Counsel relied on a case, K.P. Thimmappa Gowda v. State
of Karnataka, 2011(2) RCR (Criminal) 589 wherein Apex
Court observed that:
11.           On the other hand, it has been argued on behalf
of counsel for complainant that delay has been properly
explained. As the accused had confined the prosecutrix
and she was not able to move freely, so she reported the
matter as and when she got the chance. Besides, the
parents of prosecutrix, keeping in view the relationship
between the parties, were trying to resolve the matter
through       Panchayat.    He     submitted   that      in     such
circumstances delay had occurred and it has been properly
explained.
12.           In support of his arguments, Ld. Counsel for
Complainant relied on a case, Bhikari Panda v. State of
Orissa, 1997 Cri. L.J. 2109 wherein Orissa High Court
observed that:
13.           Ld. Counsel for complainant further relied on a
case, State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh And Others, 1996
SCC (Cri) 316 wherein Apex Court observed that:
14.           Turning to the case in hand, and keeping in view
the facts and circumstances and evidence on record, I am
of the view that principles of law laid down in cases relied
by counsel for complainant are attracted on the facts of
present case. Prosecutrix in her statement stated that
accused was brother in law (jija) of her husband and he did
not allow her to meet her husband and she did not have
any occasion to go out of the house. Only when she fell ill
on 24.10.2010, she went to her mother and told entire
story to her. PW2 mother of prosecutrix, inter alia, stated
that on 24.10.2010 her daughter, the prosecutrix came to
her house and she told her that she was in a bad condition.
 She took her to hospital on the next day and after
examining, the doctor told her that she was two months
pregnant. Her daughter told her that on 20.05.2010,
accused Lokesh mixed something into her tea and
committed rape upon her. After that she alongwith her
husband went to the house of accused and made
conversation with him and they threatened them to kill
them. On 22.04.2011 she alongwith her daughter went to
PS Karawal Nagar where statement of her daughter
Ex.PW1/A was recorded which was signed by her at point B
and on said statement FIR was registered. Even defence
witness namely Om Kar Singh, the DW1 stated that he was
aware about the physical relations between the prosecutrix
and accused. On 15.02.2011, at about 4 p.m. a panchayat
took place in the locality where prosecutrix and accused
were residing and in that panchayat prosecutrix raised a
demand of Rs.2 lacs for getting compensation from
accused Lokesh forever. Accused handed over Rs. 2 lacs in
cash to the father of the prosecutrix. DW2 also deposed
that a compromise had taken place between the accused
and the prosecutrix. The evidence on record shows that
there has been negotiations for settlement. Keeping in
view the principles of law laid down in above referred cases
relied on by the counsel for complainant, I am of the view
that delay in lodging of FIR will not be fatal to prosecution

SC No.89/13         State vs. Lokesh Kumar      Page 10 of 33
 case as delay has been properly explained. The principles
of law laid down in the case, K.P. Thimmappa Gowda v.
State of Karnataka, (supra), relied on by the counsel for
accused will not be helpful to the accused as facts of that
case and present case are quite different.
15.           On analyzing the prosecution evidence as well
as statement of accused recorded u/s 313 of the Code, the
following facts stand established:
i      That prosecutrix is the wife of Sh. ______Y_____;
ii     That Sh. ______Y_____ is brother in law (sala) of
       accused Lokesh Kumar;
iii    That the marriage of prosecutrix and Sh. Sanjay
       Sharma was solemnized on 19.02.2010;
iv     Sh. ______Y_____ was an employee of the accused;
v      Sh. ______Y_____ and prosecutrix started residing in
       the house of accused;
vi     A female child was born out of physical relationship of
       prosecutrix and the accused;
vii    On 22.04.2011 prosecutrix reported the matter vide
       statement Ex.PW1/A and on the basis of that
       statement, FIR of the present case Ex.PW6/A was
       recorded.
viii   Accused was arrested on the same day. He was
       medically examined vide MLC Ex. C-1 and the doctor

SC No.89/13           State vs. Lokesh Kumar      Page 11 of 33
       opined that there was nothing to suggest that
      accused       was     incapable      of      performing   sexual
      intercourse.
ix    After birth of female child on 03.06.2011 out of the
      physical relationship of prosecutrix and accused, DNA
      test for ascertaining the paternity of female child was
      conducted and experts from FSL opined that
      accused was biological father of the female child and
      prosecutrix was her mother.
16.           In order to prove its case against the accused
for the offences punishable u/s 328 IPC, the prosecution
has to prove firstly, that accused administered either
poison or stupefying, intoxicating or unwholesome drug in
the tea of the prosecutrix; and secondly, that tea was
taken by the prosecutrix with the intention to commit or to
facilitate the commission of an offence or knowingly it to
be likely that he will thereby cause hurt to the prosecutrix.
17.           Let   us     now      scrutinize      and   analyze      the
prosecution evidence to find out whether prosecution was
able to establish its case against accused for the above
mentioned offence.
 Causing hurt by means of poison etc.
18.           Prosecutrix, PW1 on this aspect deposed that on
20.05.2010 her husband was away from Delhi because of
factory work of the accused as he was the employee of the
accused. Accused Lokesh Kumar, came to her room and
asked her to prepare tea. She prepared tea and gave the
cup to the accused Lokesh. He asked her to bring a cup of
tea for herself but she stated that she would take tea later
on. Accused insisted her to bring tea for her and
accordingly, she brought another cup of tea. In her
absence accused mixed something in cup of tea and gave
it to her and took her cup of tea for his own consumption.
She consumed the cup of tea which accused gave to her.
As soon as she finished the tea, she started feeling
giddiness and she became unconscious. Accused taking
advantage of her unconsciousness committed rape upon
her and he also took some photographs of her person. In
cross examination nothing has come out which could prove
that she was not given tea in the manner deposed by the
prosecutrix.
19.           It has been argued on behalf of the Ld. Defence
Counsel that there is no evidence on record to establish
that prosecutrix was given any stupefying, intoxicating and
unwholesome drugs. There is no medical examination of

SC No.89/13           State vs. Lokesh Kumar     Page 13 of 33
 prosecutrix in this regard. Her statement has not been
corroborated by any of the prosecution witnesses.
20.           On the other hand, it has been argued by Ld.
Additional Public Prosecutor for the State and Ld. Counsel
for complainant that in such cases there is remote
probability of availability of scientific evidence and the
testimony of prosecutrix can only be relied on.
21.           In support of his arguments,       Ld. Counsel for
prosecutrix relied on a case, State of Punjab v. Gurmit
Singh   And     Others,   (supra)    wherein   the   Apex     Court
observed that:
22.           Turning to the case in hand, I find that
prosecutrix in an unequivocal terms has deposed that
something obnoxious was administered in her tea and after
taking the tea she became unconscious. I find her
statement as reliable and trustworthy on this aspect. It also
stands proved that consequent upon consuming of tea, she
became unconscious and became prey of the offence of
rape, etc. This has not only caused hurt on her physique
but has also caused hurt on her mind. Therefore, it is held


SC No.89/13           State vs. Lokesh Kumar           Page 15 of 33
 that commission of offence of causing hurt by means of
poisons, etc., punishable u/s 328 IPC, has been proved by
the   prosecution     against         accused      beyond    reasonable
suspicion and shadow of doubt.
Sexual intercourse on the prosecutrix by accused without
her consent

23.           In order to prove its case against the accused
for the offence of rape punishable u/s 376 IPC, prosecution
has to prove firstly, that sexual intercourse was committed
with the prosecutrix by the accused; and secondly, that
sexual intercourse was committed with her forcibly against
her will and without her consent.
24.           As mentioned above, it is not in dispute that
accused committed sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix
repeatedly and that out of repeated sexual intercourse a
female child was born. The point for adjudication is
whether sexual intercourse was performed by the accused
with the consent of prosecutrix, as prayed by Ld. Defence
Counsel or without her consent as pleaded by Ld.
Additional Public Prosecutor and Counsel for prosecutrix.
25.           On considering the rival contentions of Ld.
Counsels      for   the     parties    and    Ld.    Additional     Public

SC No.89/13               State vs. Lokesh Kumar            Page 16 of 33
 Prosecutor for the State and on analyzing the evidence on
record, I come to the conclusion that there is no evidence
on record to conclude that accused made physical relations
with the prosecutrix only with her own free consent. The
first reason which support my decision is that the
prosecutrix herself negate the suggestion of Ld. Defence
Counsel that accused committed sexual inter course with
her, with her consent. I find that PW1, inter-alia, stated that
she got married to Sh. ______Y_____ on 19.10.2010. Her
husband Sh. ______Y_____ used to work under his brother in
law Sh. Lokesh Kumar, the accused and after marriage, her
husband brought her in the house of accused and they
started residing there. On 20.05.2010 her husband was
away from Delhi. Accused came in her room and asked her
to prepare tea. In her absence accused mixed something in
cup of tea which was brought for him and gave that cup of
tea to her and took her cup of tea for his own consumption.
She took the cup of tea which accused had given to her. As
soon as she finished the tea, she started feeling giddiness
and she became unconscious. Accused, taking advantage
of her unconsciousness, committed rape on her and he
also took some photographs of her person. When she
regained consciousness, she found that her wearing
clothes were not on her person. She waited for arrival of
her husband. She was also crying and weeping. Her

SC No.89/13         State vs. Lokesh Kumar        Page 17 of 33
 husband did not return home. After sometime accused
came in that room. She asked to accused as to why he had
committed that wrong/foul act with her. She replied that he
had been keeping an eyes on her and that day he got an
opportunity and committed that foul act on her. He then
gave threat to her that he would kill her parents and family
members and he would also put those photographs on
Internet which were taken by him through his phone, if she
discloses the incident to anybody. He had also shown her,
those photographs without her clothes on her body in his
mobile. He also gave her beating. Accused did not allow
her husband to meet her and he continued indulging in
sexual activities with her against her will and by giving
threat. Thus prosecutrix herself made it abundantly clear
that she did not give consent to the accused to have
sexual intercourse with her. Nothing material could come
out which create reasonable suspicion and shadow of
doubt about the genuineness of her statement or that she
consented to the sexual intercourse with her by the
accused.
26.           It has been argued by Ld. Defence Counsel that
continued stay of the prosecutrix with the accused without
making any complaint to anybody else for a long time and
maintaining physical relationship with him amounts to

SC No.89/13           State vs. Lokesh Kumar    Page 18 of 33
 giving of consent by her for the sexual act. Besides, the
prosecution has not proved any injury on the person of
prosecutrix. This has further supported his arguments that
there     was   a   consent     of   sexual      intercourse   by    the
prosecutrix with the accused.
27.           In support of his arguments, he relied on a case,
Sultan Singh alias Sultana v. State of Haryana, 2010(4) RCR
(Criminal) 961 wherein Punjab And Haryana High Court
observed that:
28.           Turning to the case in hand, I find that this case
will not provide any benefit to the accused as facts of that


SC No.89/13             State vs. Lokesh Kumar           Page 19 of 33
 case and present case are quite different. In that case, the
facts were that appellant came and caught hold of her and
forcibly laid her on the ground and opened the string of her
salwar and committed rape on her. In the present case,
there     is   evidence   of    administering,    stupefying,     and
obnoxious       substance      in   the   tea    and   making      her
unconscious before commission of rape on her. Therefore,
this is the second reason of holding that there was lack of
consent of the prosecutrix for sexual intercourse by the
accused in the present case.
29.            It is admitted fact that accused is brother in law
(jija) of husband of the prosecutrix. Accused also attended
marriage of prosecutrix with his brother in law (sala). He
was well aware that prosecutrix was legally wedded wife of
his brother in law (sala). Inspite of that he committed
sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix.
30.            It would be appropriate to reproduce provisions
of Clause Fifthly of Section 375 IPC which run as under:
31.           On applying the above mentioned provisions on
the facts of present case, it has become abundantly clear
that non resistance of the prosecutrix either due to
influence     of   intoxication,   unwholesome   or     stupefying
substance or due to fear or threat cannot be treated as a
valid consent for committing of sexual intercourse by the
accused with the prosecutrix. This is third reason of my
decision.
32.           Counsel for complainant relied on a case, Deelip
Singh Alias Dilip Kumar v. State of Bihar, (2005) 1 SCC 88,
wherein the Apex Court observed that:
33.           Counsel for complainant further relied on a
case, State of M.P. v. Bablu Natt, AIR 2009 SC 1810
wherein       the   Apex   Court    held    that   compelling     the
prosecutrix to live with accused for several days and
committing rape is not a ground for rejection of sentence.
The principles of laid down in cases, Deelip Singh Alias
Dilip Kumar v. State of Bihar, (supra), and State of M.P. v.
Bablu Natt, (supra), are applicable on the facts of present
case and thus support the prosecution case. This is fourth
reason of my decision.
34.           It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Defence
Counsel that accused has paid a compensation of Rs.2 lacs
to the parents of the prosecutrix/prosecutrix and that
amounts to giving of consent. On the other hand it has
been argued on behalf of the prosecution and the
complainant that, that does not amount to consent.
35.           In support of his arguments, Ld. Counsel for
complainant relied on a case, Thingom Sashikumar and
others, v. Manipur Administration, 1963 (2) L. J. 562
wherein it was held that:
36.           Turning to the case in hand, I find that it has
been established on record that accused paid a sum of Rs.
2 lacs to the prosecutrix but on perusal of order dated
14.05.2012, I find that, that amount was paid only for
future needs of the child which was born out of the
physical relationship of the accused and the prosecutrix. In
the facts and circumstances of the present case and in
view of the principles of law laid down in case Thingom
Sashikumar and others, v. Manipur Administration, (supra),
it cannot be held that paying of above mentioned amount
by the accused to the prosecutrix or her father for future
need of the child amounted to giving of consent for
committing rape on the prosecutrix. This is the fifth reason
of my decision.
37.           The sixth reason of my decision is that her
mother, PW2 also supported the prosecution case and

SC No.89/13           State vs. Lokesh Kumar       Page 23 of 33
 testimony of prosecutrix. She, inter alia, stated that on
24.10.2010 her daughter __X__ came to her house and she
told her that she was in a bad condition. She took her to
hospital on next day and after examining, doctor told her
that she was two months pregnant. Her daughter told her
that on 20.05.2010 accused Lokesh mixed something in
her tea and committed rape on her. She also told that her
husband had gone out of Delhi for the factory work and
after that accused was continuously raping her under
threat. On 22.04.2011 she went with her daughter at P.S.
Karawal Nagar where statement of her daughter Ex.PW1/A
was recorded and on the said complaint FIR was registered.
Her daughter was medically examined at GTB Hospital. In
cross examination too, nothing material could come out
which could create reasonable suspicion and doubt about
the truthfulness of the prosecution case.
38.           The seventh reason of my decision is that other
prosecution witnesses also supported the prosecution case.
For example, PW3 who conducted medical examination of
the prosecutrix, inter alia, stated that on 22.04.2011 she
was working as Senior Resident at GTB Hospital. On that
day at about 4:10 p.m., prosecutrix was brought before her
by ASI Santosh alongwith her mother for her medical
examination with alleged history of sexual assault by her

SC No.89/13           State vs. Lokesh Kumar     Page 24 of 33
 brother in law multiple times in the year 2010 following
which she conceived. Her husband was out of station in
that period.     She examined the patient vide her detailed
report Ex.PW3/A. Testimony of this witness was not
questioned by putting any cross to the doctor.
39.           PW6 also corroborated the prosecution case. He,
inter alia, stated that on 22.04.2011 he was posted at P.S.
Karawal Nagar as Duty Officer. On that day he recorded FIR
No.116/2011 through Computer Operator on the basis of
which rukka was produced before him by W/ASI Santosh.
Copy of FIR was proved as Ex.PW6/A. After registration of
FIR, copy and rukka was handed over to W/SI Santosh.
Endorsement on rukka was proved as Ex.PW6/B. Testimony
of this witness was also not challenged.
40.           PW7 also corroborated the prosecution case by
stating that on 27.06.2011 she was working as Sr.
Scientific Officer, FSL, Delhi and on that day blood sample
of Lokesh, Smt. __X__ and Baby _X-1_ were taken in her
office. Same were marked as Ex. P-1 to Ex. P-3. and DNA
was isolated from the source. DNA finger printing profile
was prepared. Data was analyzed by using Genes Scan and
Genotyper Software. Ex. 1 to Ex. 3 provided sufficiently to
conclude that source of Ex. 1 and source of Ex. 2 were the

SC No.89/13           State vs. Lokesh Kumar     Page 25 of 33
 biological father and mother of source of Ex. 3. Her
detailed report was proved as Ex.PW7/A. Testimony of this
witness was also not challenged.
41.           PW8 IO also corroborated the prosecution case
by corroborating the statement of prosecutrix and other
witness and       proving   the    documents     on    record     and
particularly    statement     of   prosecutrix    as     Ex.PW1/A,
endorsement on statement of prosecutrix as Ex.PW8/A,
arrest memo Ex.PW1/B, personal search memo Ex.PW5/A,
disclosure statement Ex.PW5/B, MLC of prosecutrix as
Ex.PW3/E, site plan as Ex.PW8/B and FSL report Ex.PW7/A.
Nothing material could come out which could create doubt
about the truthfulness of the prosecution case. Other
witness namely, PW4 who took the rukka for registration of
FIR also corroborated the prosecution case.
42.           DW1 and DW2 deposed only about holding of
panchayat and payment of Rs.2 lacs on account of
compromise. Therefore, in my view their testimonies will
not provide any benefit to the accused so far as
commission of sexual intercourse by the accused without
her consent and will is concerned. This is my eighth reason
of this decision.
 43.           The    ninth   reason    of   my   decision    is   that
arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel that admission of
prosecutrix in cross examination that she visited Agra and
attended Jagran at other place with the accused where so
many photographs were taken amounts to giving of
consent by her. In view of reasons and discussion made
here in above, it is not convincing that these admissions in
cross examination of the prosecutrix amounted to giving
consent by her to the sexual intercourse committed on her
by the accused.
44.           The last reason of my decision is that there is no
evidence on record showing any motive or reason for the
prosecutrix     to    depose     falsely    against   the   accused
particularly when the accused was her brother in law
(nandoi) and he not only employed husband of the
prosecutrix but also provide shelter to the prosecutrix and
her husband by allowing them to stay in his own house
unless he had committed the alleged crimes. My view finds
supports by a case Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State
of Gujarat, (SC), 1983 A.I.R. (S.C.) 753, wherein the Apex
Court observed:
      [Emphasis supplied]

              In view of the above reasons and discussion it is
proved that accused committed sexual intercourse with the
prosecutrix forcibly without her consent and against her
will beyond any reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt.
Criminal Intimidation
45.           In order to prove its case for the offence of
criminal      intimidation,    punishable       u/s   506   IPC,     the
prosecution has to prove firstly, that accused gave threat
to the prosecutrix and secondly, the threat was to cause
death or grievous hurt, etc.


46.           The testimony of material witness have already
been recorded here in above. Same are not being repeated
for the sake of brevity and to avoid repetition. However, on
the basis of evidence, I am satisfied that prosecution has
established      on   record    that   accused        threatened     the
prosecutrix not to disclose the facts of rape on her by
showing her naked photographs to the public by loading
them into the Internet and to kill her parents in case if she
disclosed the incident to anyone. The evidence has proved

SC No.89/13            State vs. Lokesh Kumar            Page 28 of 33
 these threats.     It is, therefore, held that the case of the
prosecution for the offence of criminal intimidation stands
proved.
47.           Lastly, it is not only the duty of the judge to see
that one innocent person should not be punished even if
hundred offenders are allowed to go scot-free but also he
has to see that the accused who has committed the crime
must not go unpunished. It is also duty of the court to
separate the grain from the chaff as held in case of
Bhagwan Dass vs. State (NCT of Delhi), (2011) 6 SCC 396.
While     considering     and     analyzing      entire   prosecution
evidence this court has come to the conclusion that all the
oral, circumstantial and scientific evidence has proved that
the     accused    Lokesh       Kumar     committed       offence         of
administering either poison or stupefying, intoxicating or
unwholesome drug to the prosecutrix; committed sexual
intercourse repeatedly with the prosecutrix forcibly against
her will after giving threat to the prosecutrix. Therefore, it
is bounden duty of this court to hold the accused guilty and
convict him.
                           CONCLUSIONS
48.           In view of the above reasons, discussion and
evidence on record and particularly discussed here in

SC No.89/13             State vs. Lokesh Kumar            Page 29 of 33
 above, it is held that the prosecution has successfully
proved beyond reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt
that accused caused injuries on the prosecutrix by
administering, obnoxious substance punishable u/s 328 IPC
and    when        the   prosecutrix    became       unconscious           he
committed rape on her forcibly without her consent and
against her will punishable u/s 376 IPC and when she
regain her conscious, he threatened her not to disclose
anything      to    anyone     least    he    will   put   her     naked
photographs on Internet and kill her parents and thereby
committed offence of criminal intimidation punishable u/s
506 IPC. Accordingly, accused is held guilty and convicted
for the offences punishable u/s 328/376/506 IPC.
49.           As accused is on bail, so, he be taken into
judicial custody.Announced in the Open Court
Dated: 23.03.2013             (DR. T.R. NAVAL)
                      Additional Sessions Judge, (SFTC)
                       Karkardooma Courts, Delhi




SC No.89/13              State vs. Lokesh Kumar            Page 30 of 33
 IN THE COURT OF DR. T. R. NAVAL, ADDITIONAL SESSIONS
JUDGE, (SPECIAL FAST TRACK COURT), EAST, NORTH EAST
& SHAHDARA DISTRICTS, KARKARDOOMA COURTS, DELHI

SC No.89/13
State vs. Lokesh Kumar
FIR No.116/11
PS Karawal Nagar

                  State Versus Lokesh Kumar

                    ORDER ON SENTENCE
28.03.2013
Present:      Ms. Madhu Arora Addl. P.P. for the State.
              Convict/accused in J.C.
              Sh. Abdul Salam, Advocate for the
              convict/accused.
              I have heard arguments on the quantum of
sentence.
2.            It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Defence
Counsel that accused/convict is a young boy of 29 years of
age; he is a businessman and belongs to a respectable
family; he has four school going children and no one is
there to look after his children; he had been in jail for about
13 months; he has deposited a sum of Rs. Two lakhs in the
form of FDR on judicial record; his married life may be
ruined if he is sent to jail; he has paid around Rs. One lakh
to the father of the prosecutrix from time to time; and he
has no previous criminal record. It has been prayed that
lenient view in sentence may be taken and accused may


SC No.89/13          State vs. Lokesh Kumar       Page 31 of 33
 be released on the sentence which he has already
undergone.
3.            On the other hand, it has been argued on behalf
of   Ld.      Additional   Public   Prosecutor     that        deterrent
punishment may be awarded to the accused as case
against the accused has been established even by
DNA/scientific evidence. He has not only misused his
position as a relative of the prosecutrix but also his
position as employer of her husband.
4.            Keeping in view the submissions and all relevant
factors and circumstances in which the accused committed
crime, it would be just and appropriate if deterrent view in
sentence is taken. Accused has not only betrayed the trust
reposed in him by his brother in law (sala) and prosecutrix
sister in law (salaj) but also repeated the heinous crime of
rape knowing fully well that prosecutrix was wife of his
brother in law (sala) who was his employee. Accordingly,
convict/accused Lokesh Kumar is sentenced to undergo
rigorous imprisonment for 7 years and he is further
sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.50,000/- in default simple
imprisonment for one year for the offence punishable
under section 328 IPC.
5.            Convict/accused       Lokesh      Kumar     is     further
sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 8 years
and he is further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.60,000/- in

SC No.89/13            State vs. Lokesh Kumar           Page 32 of 33
 default simple imprisonment for one year and six months
for the offence punishable under section 376 IPC.
6.            Convict/accused      Lokesh       Kumar    is    further
sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for one year
and he is further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.15,000/- in
default simple imprisonment for four months for the
offence punishable under section 506 IPC.
7.            All the sentences will run concurrently.
8.            It is further ordered that if convict/accused
Lokesh Kumar has undergone any period in judicial
custody, that period will be set off against the sentence as
provided U/s 428 Cr. P.C.
9.            Out of the fine amount, and after expiration of
the period of appeal, a sum of Rs.75,000/- will be payable
to    the     prosecutrix   as    compensation.     Besides        this
compensation, she will also be entitled to get other
compensation, if available to her under other laws.
10.           The convict/accused Lokesh Kumar be sent to
imprisonment to serve the sentence.
11.           A copy each of judgment and order on sentence
is supplied to convict/accused Lokesh Kumar free of cost.
              File be consigned to Record Room.