(1)            As   per   the   allegations,   before   28.01.2012   (on   many 

occasions)   at   C­105/106,   Sector­5,   Bawana   Industrial   Area,   Delhi, 

within   the  jurisdiction   of  Police  Station  Shahbad Dairy,  the  accused 

Tejinder   Singh   @   Lucky   Singh   and   Vikram   Singh   @   Vicky   Singh 

committed gang rape upon the prosecutrix 'P' (name of the prosecutrix  

is withheld as this is a case under Section 376 IPC).  It is also alleged 

that   both   the   accused   persons   criminally   intimidated   above   said 

prosecutrix "P" not to disclose about the commission of gang rape to 

any one.  
 
BRIEF FACTS/ CASE OF THE PROSECUTION:
(2)            The   case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   on   28.01.2012   the 

prosecutrix "P" came to the police station along with her father Sunil 

Kumar and uncle Sh. R. K. Robin and lodged complaint wherein she 

told   the   police   that   she   was   studying   in   Class­V   in   Ganeshi   Public 

School, Village Sanoth and that her father was doing a job of chowkidar 

for last seventeen months at C­105 & 106, Sector­5, Bawana Industrial 

Area, Bawana, Delhi, and he was running a tea stall in front of C­105. 

She further stated that after coming from school she used to sit on the 

said tea stall.  She has also stated that her mother was ill, her father used 

to frequently take her mother hospital.     According to the prosecutrix 

the accused Lucy Singh and Vicky Singh were the owner of C­106 and 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 2 of 93
 she   used   to   visit   them   when   they   ordered   for   tea.   The   prosecutrix 

further stated that about four to five months back when she went to their 

office,   both   the   accused   caught   hold   of   her   and   after   removing   her 

clothe both the accused persons committed rape upon her one by one on 

which she started crying but could not disclose this fact to anybody due 

to   the   threats   given   by   the   accused   and   they   continued   to   do   so 

whenever her father took her mother to hospital. She further told the 

police that one day when she had gone to the roof, one Deepak Kumar 

Shah  (accused   is   facing   trial   separately   before   the   Juvenile   Justice  

Board) who was working as Foreman at C­104, caught hold of her and 

committed rape upon her.   The prosecutrix has also stated that all the 

three accused persons have been regularly   committing rape upon her 

against her wish under threats and it was due to the threats she could 

not tell anything to her parents. According to the prosecutrix, about ten 

to twelve days prior to the date of the complaint she fell ill and her 

father took her to the doctor who declared her pregnant, and it was only 

on repeatedly asking by her father she disclosed all the facts in detail to 

her father after which she was taken to the police station. 

(3)            On the basis of the complaint made by the prosecutrix "P", 

the present case was got registered under Sections 376 (2)(G)/506 IPC, 

medical   of   the   prosecutrix   "P"   was   got   conducted,   accused   persons 

were arrested and after completing the investigation, charge sheet was 

filed in the court.
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 3 of 93
 CHARGE:
(4)   The charges under Sections 376 (2) (g)/506 IPC were settled 

against the accused Tejeder Singh @ Lucky Singh and Vikram Singh @ 

Vicky Singh  to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.  


EVIDENCE:
(5)    In order to discharge the onus upon it, the prosecution has 

examined as many as twenty three witnesses as under:



Public Witnesses/ Victim/ Complainant:
(6)            PW10 'P' is the prosecutrix.  She has deposed that they are 

four   brothers   and   sisters   i.e.   two   brothers   and   two   sisters,   both   the 

brothers are elder to her and she is the third child of her parents. She 

has deposed that her sister who is now 10 months old is the youngest 

and that her father is doing Chowkidari in the factories at Bawana while 

her mother is a housewife.  According to the prosecutrix, at the time of 

the   incident   she   was   studying   in   Class   5th  in   Ganesh   Public   School 

which is also in the same area. The witness has deposed that they were 

running tea stall where she also used to sit along with her parents and 

brothers. She has deposed that her mother was suffering from breathing 

problems and often remain unwell and her father used to take her to the 

hospital frequently and in the absence her father, it was she who need to 

run the tea stall. Witness has deposed that one day when her parents 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy              Page No. 4 of 93
 were away and she was sitting at the tea stall when Lucky and Vicky 

who were the owners of the factory where her father was a Chowkidar, 

asked   her   to   get   tea   in   their   office.     According   to   the   witness   she 

prepared tea and took the same to the office of Lucky and Vicky and 

after   serving   the   tea   when   she   was   returning   the   accused   Lucky 

(correctly identified) caught hold of her.  The accused Vicky  shut the 

door of the office after which Vicky forcibly removed her clothes, first 

Lucky forcibly committed rape on her and thereafter it was Vicky who 

committed rape on her on which she raised alarm and cried (CHILAI  

ROI) but they did not leave her and her voice could not be heard outside 

because of the noise of the machine which was operating in the factory. 

On a court question as to what was the work being done in the factory, 

the witness has responded that bottles were being manufactured (bottle 

banti hain).  Witness has deposed that thereafter the accused persons 

asked her to wear her clothes but since she was unwilling to go out after 

the incident, they forcibly first put her clothes on her and then asked her 

to leave and also threatened her again and again that if she told about 

this incident to anybody, they would kill her and her family members 

and throw them in the Nehar (AGAR TUMNE KISI KO BI BATAYA TO  

HUM TUJHE OR TERE PARIVAR KO MAR KAR NEHAR MEIN FEK  

DENGE). 
(7)            On a Court question as to why did they threatened her again 

and again, the witness has respondent that they used to threaten her 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy               Page No. 5 of 93
 again and again when they repeated this act with her time and again. 

On being asked by the court as to what she means by the word act, the 

witness has explained that the accused persons committed rape with her 

whenever her parents used to go out or to the hospital.

(8)            The prosecutrix has further deposed that one day when she 

was drying her clothes on her Chhat / Roof, Deepak Kumar who was 

working   in   factory   No.   C­104   i.e.   adjoining   factory   owned   by   one 

Munna, jumped over the roof and came over to her roof where she was 

drying the clothes and caught hold of her after which he removed her 

clothes and committed rape on her on which she screamed and cried but 

he   did   not   leave   her.   She   has   deposed   that   in   a   similar   manner, 

whenever her parents used to be away, he i.e. Deepak used to frequently 

come to her house and committed rape on her but out of fear, she did 

not   tell   anybody   because   he   had   threatened   her.     According   to   the 

witness, one day she fell ill on which her parents took her to the doctor 

who   informed   her   parents   that   she   was   pregnant   by   seven   to   eight 

months and it was only then that she informed her parents about what 

Lucky, Vicky and Deepak had done with her after which her parents 

brought her to the Police Station where her statement Ex.PW­10/A was 

recorded by the IO. The prosecutrix has deposed that thereafter on her 

identification   and   pointing   out,   the   accused   were   apprehended   and 

accused   Deepak   was   arrested   vide  Ex.PW­10/B,  Lucky   Singh   was 

arrested   vide  Ex.PW­10/C  and   Vicky   Singh   was   arrested   vide 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 6 of 93
 Ex.PW­10/D.  The prosecutrix has further deposed that on the next day, 

she was also taken to the hospital where her medical examination was 

got   conducted   after   which   she   was   brought   to   the   court   where   her 

statement was recorded by the Ld. MM vide Ex.PW­10/E bearing her 

signatures at various point Mark A. The prosecutrix has further deposed 

that   on   28.01.12,   police   recorded   her   statement   vide  Ex.PW­10/F. 

According to the witness, the disclosure statement of accused Tejinder 

Singh @ Lucky Ex.PW­10/G bears her signatures at point A, disclosure 

statement of accused Vikram Singh @ Vicky  Ex.PW­10/H  bears her 

signatures   at   point  A.   Witness   has   further   deposed   that   police   also 

prepared the pointing out memos at the instance of the accused Lucky 

and Vicky vide Ex.PW­10/I and Ex.PW­10/J.
(9)            In   her   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   Counsel,   the 

witness has deposed that she was  an original resident of Bihar, Distt. 

Nalanda.   According   to   the   witness   she   was   initially   residing   at   her 

native village and does not recollect when she came to Delhi and has 

explained   that   it   was   when   she   was   studying   in   Class   4th  and   has 

clarified   that   in   Delhi   and   she   was   admitted   in   Class   5th.     She   has 

admitted   that   they   came   to   Bawana   about   2   years   ago   and   has 

voluntarily added that prior to that they were residing at Ghitorni where 

they were residing for many years. The witness again said, her parents 

were residing at Ghitorni while she was residing in Nawada where she 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy               Page No. 7 of 93
 was residing with her second brother and they were studying there. The 

witness has deposed that in Navada, she was studying in Vasant Valley, 

Industrial Missions Public School (a Christian School) but she does not 

recollect for how many years, she studied in that school. According to 

the witness she was not working while she in her native village and it 

was only when she came to Delhi that she started working in a tea stall 

run by her family. She has deposed that she and her brother Suraj were 

admitted together in the school at Bihar but is unable to tell by how 

many years Suraj was elder to her and states that according to her he 

must be elder to her by 2 years and Suraj was also studying in Class 5th. 

(10)             On being asked by the court as to why she was still in class 

5th for many years, the prosecutrix has explained that she had given the 

examination but failed in Class 5th.   The witness has further deposed 

that Sushil was her eldest brother who was previously working but now 

he   is   staying   at   home   and   he   must   be   elder   to   her   by   four   years. 

According   to   the   witness,   she   used   to   go   to   the   school   in   Delhi 

regularly, except on holidays, and used to speak and interact with her 

teachers in the school but she has no friends in the school.  The witness 

has deposed that except her family, nobody was residing in the factory 

at   C­105­106.   Witness   has   admitted   that   she   does   not   have   any 

differences   with   her   mother   and   often   spoke   /   conversed   with   her. 

According to her, she did not tell to her mother anything when for the 

first time the alleged incident took place with her by Lucky and Vicky 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy               Page No. 8 of 93
 nor  she   told   her   teachers any of  the child in school  as to what  had 

happened.   She has deposed that her mother remained admitted in the 

hospital  at  the  time of delivery but otherwise she used to remain at 

home. She has further deposed that she knew Deepak because he used 

to come at her shop to take tea who used to come almost everyday.  She 

has further deposed that ever since, she come from the village they had 

opened a tea stall and Deepak used to come there.  The prosecutrix is 

unable to tell at what time her father used to open the shop and she 

explained that she used to sit in the tea stall after the school hours i.e. 

after 1 p.m. her father shuts the shop at about 9:00 pm.  According to 

the witness, when for the first time the incident took place, it was day 

time i.e. when her parents had gone to the hospital. The witness has 

further  deposed that the factory in question has a basement and has two 

floors and the factory remains empty.  According to the witness at the 

time of the incident, Lucky and Vicky were having two workers who 

were working in the factory. She is unable to tell if there were six to 

seven persons working in the factory at the time of the incident and has 

clarified   that   she   did   not   find   any   worker   working   there.     She   has 

deposed that at the time of the incident, she did not see any worker and 

has   also   stated   that   she   did   not   recollect   the   date   of   the   incident. 

According to the witness, the accused Vicky and Lucky were residing at 

Rohini   and   had   come  to   the  factory  by  their  vehicle   and  they  drive 

themselves but she is unable to tell the make of the vehicle. She has 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy               Page No. 9 of 93
 deposed that the accused persons used to come together in the same 

vehicle. She has deposed that the family members of the accused also 

used   to   come   in   the   factory   and   has   voluntarily   explained   that   the 

parents of the accused used came to the factory for performing religious 

ceremonies during festivals. According to the witness the room where 

the incident had taken place is as big as the chamber of the court i.e. 

around 10 x 12 feet. Witness has admitted that there was a table in the 

room with two chairs but there was no sitting arrangement in the form 

of a bench or anything else. Witness has denied that no such incident 

had taken place at any point of time or that she was now creating a story 

only to falsely implicate the accused. She has deposed that on the date 

of the incident, her younger brother was with her at the tea stall and has 

voluntarily   deposed   that   he   had   gone   out   to   play.     She   has   further 

deposed that after the incident, she came back to the tea stall but she did 

not tell her brother or anybody else as to what had happened. According 

to the witness she was not crying at the time when she came back to the 

tea stall and nobody noticed her. She has deposed that the machine was 

operating on the ground floor and also on the first floor. The machine 

was   being   operated   by   the   accused   but   she  did  not   see   any  worker. 

According to the witness the incident lasted for about half an hour and 

she has voluntarily explained that she came out of the room after about 

half an hour.  She is unable to tell the number of times, the accused had 

committed rape on her and has voluntarily explained that they repeated 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 10 of 93
 the act on a large number of other occasions as well. 

(11)             On a Court Question if anybody else also committed this act 

of  rape  or  sexually  exploited her and why did she said five persons 

because this court had observed the prosecutrix suddenly stating that 

five persons were involved, the prosecutrix has explained replied that 

Rajesh and Girish who were Chowkidar of the factory had also made 

physical relations with her. She further explained that Rajesh and Girish 

resided on the top floor of the same factory while they (her family) 

were residing on the ground floor and has voluntarily added that they 

used to call her to the top floor and then made relations with her on 

many occasions. The prosecutrix has denied that she was about to get 

married to Deepak.  She has also deposed that initially she had not told 

the police about the Rajesh and Girish. She further deposed that she did 

not tell the Ld. MM about Rajesh and Girish and has voluntarily added 

that she did tell the police later on about them and has deposed that she 

did   not   tell   anybody   in   her   house   about   her   pregnancy   and   has 

voluntarily explained that it was later on that she came to know that she 

was pregnant and nobody from her family suspected the same. She has 

deposed that it was only when she had malaria and was taken to the 

hospital by her father that her pregnancy was revealed.

(12)             The witness has denied that she used to go out with Deepak 

or that when her parents were not at home, Deepak used to come and 

meet her and has voluntarily explained that he only used to come and 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy      Page No. 11 of 93
 take tea. Witness has denied that she only had physical relations with 

Deepak. She is also unable to tell to whom the child belonged and has 

voluntarily explained that she cannot tell about the father of the child 

because   all   the   accused   including   Rajesh   and   Ganesh   used   to  make 

regular relations with her. Witness has denied that accused Lucky and 

Vicky have been falsely implication by her father only to extort money 

from them and no such incident took place and it is for this reason that 

she did not disclose about the same to anybody. Witness has also denied 

that she was deposing falsely on the tutoring of her parents.

(13)             PW19   Ganga   (from   Navshrishti   NGO   B­115­   116,   Budh 

Bazar Road, Nangloi) has deposed that on 28.01.2012 she received a 

call from Police Station Shahbad Diary regarding rape of a young girl 

and on receipt of the information she reached Police Station Shahbad 

Dairy where she met the prosecutrix, her father Sunil and SI Mukesh. 

According to the witness she spoke to the girl and counseled her and 

she (prosecutrix) disclosed that she was residing in Bawana Industrial 

Area along with her parents and four other brothers and sisters and is a 

student of Class V.  The witness has deposed that the prosecutrix also 

informed that her father was a Guard and they are also running a tea 

stall   outside   the   factory   and   her   mother   was   a   patient   of   Asthama. 

According to the witness the prosecutrix further informed that when her 

father   used   to   take   her   mother   to   the   hospital,   she   along   with   her 

brother   Suraj   and   younger   sister   used   to  manage   the   tea   stall.     The 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy            Page No. 12 of 93
 witness has deposed that according to the prosecutrix, one day when 

she was  managing  the Tea Stall, she was asked by Vicky Singh the 

owner of the factory to bring tea inside the factory and when she went 

inside she found both Vicky Singh and Lucky Singh inside the factory 

and   that   when   she   was   about   to  pour   tea   in   the   cups,   Vicky   Singh 

caught hold of her and Lucky Singh closed the door and thereafter both 

of them raped her. The witness has further deposed that the prosecutrix 

also informed that thereafter she started crying and both the accused 

threatened her not to inform about the incident to anybody or else they 

would throw her family in the Nehar.  The witness has deposed that the 

prosecutrix   told   her   that   that   she   was   thereafter   regularly   sexually 

abused   by   these   persons   for   two   to  three   months   and   whenever   her 

father used to take her mother to the hospital these persons called her 

inside the factory and sexually abused her. According to the witness, the 

prosecutrix  has informed  her that one day when she was drying the 

clothes on the roof another boy residing in the neighbourhood namely 

Deepak also climbed on the roof and did  galat kaam  (with her).   The 

witness has deposed that the prosecutrix further informed her that later 

on when she fell sick and her father took her to the hospital it was then 

it was revealed that she had conceived and was pregnant. The witness 

has   deposed   that   thereafter   police   recorded   the   statement   of   the 

prosecutrix in her presence which statement is already Ex. PW10/A and 

bears her signature at point A.
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 13 of 93
 (14)             In   her   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   Counsel,   the 

witness has deposed that she reached the Police Station at about 7 to 8 

p.m. and remained in there till about 10 - 11 p.m.   The witness has 

voluntarily added that at that time the prosecutrix appeared very scared 

and   apprehensive   and   she   had   to   counsel   her   for   quite   some   time. 

Witness has deposed that the statement of the prosecutrix was recorded 

at about 10 p.m. and at the time when statement of the prosecutrix was 

recorded her father and chacha were also present in the police station. 

Witness has denied that the statement of the prosecutrix was recorded 

by the police on the tutoring of her father and chacha and she merely 

signed the same in routine matter. 
(15)             PW20 Sunil Kumar is the father of the prosecutrix "P" and 

has deposed that he was residing at the given address on the ground 

floor   along   with   his   wife   and   children   and   was   doing   the   work   of 

Chowkidar at factory No. C­105 and C­106 in the night hours for last 

one and a half years prior to the date of occurrence. According to him, 

during the day time he used to sell tea on the ground floor of C­105. He 

has deposed that his wife, daughter namely 'P' who was aged about 13 

years and his son namely Suraj used to help him in supplying the tea in 

the factory No. C­104, C­105 and C­106.  He has deposed that his wife 

namely Rani Devi was a patient of Asthama and so she was ill for the 

last 2½ ­3 months prior to the date of incident and that whenever he 

used to take his wife to hospital for treatment, his daughter 'P' and son 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 14 of 93
 Suraj   used   to  maintain   tea stall and supply tea in the factories. The 

witness has deposed that he knew the accused Lucky Singh and Vicky 

Singh (correctly identified in the court) as they are the owner of factory 

No. C­106 and he also knew the accused Deepak Kumar Shah as he 

used   to   work   as   Foreman   in   factory   No.   C­104.   According   to   the 

witness   about   10   to   12   days   prior   to   reporting   of   the   matter   the 

condition of his daughter 'P' was deteriorated on which he had taken her 

to the Government Dispensary situated in Metro Vihar Phase­I and at 

that time when the doctor had checked her, he had told that his daughter 

'P' was pregnant. The witness has deposed that on hearing the same, he 

was shocked as his daughter was aged about 13 years. According to the 

witness, after he came back to his house with daughter and called his 

younger brother namely Ravinder Kumar Robin and after that asked 'P' 

about   the   matter   on   which   she   started   crying   and   scared   and   on 

repeatedly asking she disclosed them that Lucky Singh, Vicky Singh the 

owners   of   factory   No.   C­106   and   Deepak   Kumar   Shah   (foreman   of 

factory No. C­106) were doing "galat kaam" with her for a long time 

and she was threatened by them not to disclose the matter to anyone 

otherwise   they   will   kill   her.   According   to   the   witness,   when   his 

daughter disclosed these fact to them, he along with his brother R K 

Robin took her at PS Shahbad Dairy where they disclosed the matter to 

the   police   and   police   recorded   statement   of   'P'   and   thereafter   his 

daughter was taken to MB Hospital with lady constable Seema and SI 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 15 of 93
 Mukesh Devi for her medical examination.   The witness has deposed 

that he also accompanied them to the hospital and after her medical 

examination   they   all   reached   at   factory   No.   C­104,   Bawana   where 

accused Deepak Shah was present at the aforesaid factory and he was 

arrested by the police at the instance of his daughter. The witness has 

deposed that the police also made enquiries from accused Deepak and 

he confessed his guilt.  He has deposed that at that time police prepared 

some papers regarding his arrest which were signed by the witness. The 

witness has deposed that he can identify the said papers and also the 

accused   Deepak  (accused   Deepak   is   Juvenile).   Witness   has   deposed 

that after the arrest of accused Deepak, he took them to the house of 

accused Lucky Singh in Sector 22, Rohini where accused Lucky Singh 

was found present and accused Lucky Singh was arrested and he was 

also interrogated by the police in which he has also confessed about his 

guilt.  The witness has deposed that he also signed the papers prepared 

by the police regarding arrest of accused Lucky Singh i.e. arrest memo 

of   accused   Lucky   Singh   is  Ex.PW10/C,  personal   search   memo 

Ex.PW20/A and the disclosure statement Ex.PW10/G. The witness has 

deposed that after the arrest of accused Lucky Singh, they all reached 

the house of accused Vickey Singh at Guru Nanak Enclave, Vikas Puri, 

Delhi   and   when   they   reached  there accused  Vicky Singh  was  found 

present in front of his house and he was also arrested by the police at 

the   instance   of   daughter   of   the   witness   i.e.   the   prosecutrix   and   on 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 16 of 93
 interrogation   by   the   police   in,   he   also   confessed   about   his   guilt. 

Witness has seen arrest memo of accused Vicky Singh @ Vikram Singh 

which is Ex.PW10/D which bears signatures of the witness at point B. 

Personal   search   of   accused   Vicky   Singh   is  Ex.PW20/B  bearing 

signatures of the witness at point A. Disclosure statement of accused 

Vickey Singh is Ex.PW10/H which also bears signatures of the witness 

at point B.
(16)             The witness has further deposed that after the arrest both 

the   accused   Lucky   Singh   and   Vicky   Singh,   they   took   the   police   at 

factory No. C­106, Bawana Industrial Area, Bawana, Delhi where they 

pointed   out   the   office   where   they   had   done   "galat   kaam"   with   his 

daughter   'P'.   The   pointing   out   memo   of   accused   Lukcy   Singh   is 

Ex.PW10/I  and   that   of   accused   Vicky   Singh   is  Ex.PW10/J.  The 

witness   has   deposed   that   after   that   they   all   went   to   Police   Station 

Shahbad   Dairy   where   his   statement   was   recorded   by   the   IO   in   the 

police station and thereafter he took his daughter back to house. The 

witness has deposed that prior to that as per the directions of the IO, he 

had   given   undertaking   to   the   police   to   produce   his   daughter   in   the 

police station on the next day.  According to him the said undertaking 

was signed by him which is Ex.PW20/C

(17)             In   his   cross­examination   by   Ld.   Defence   Counsel,   the 

witness has deposed that he came to his house along with his daughter 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 17 of 93
 from the police station in the night at 12.00 (midnight). Witness has 

deposed that he has four children i.e. elder son namely Sushil and other 

son   namely   Suraj   Kumar,   daughter   namely   'P'   and   other   daughter 

namely Kanchan and that he was living at C­105 for the last 17 months 

prior to the date of incident. According to the witness they were also 

using basement of factory No. C­106.   He has admitted that he along 

with his Children were residing at C­105 and were not living in the 

basement of C­106 and that  the name of owner of C­105 is Mr. Nitin. 

He has deposed that his daughter told him that she was subjected to 

sexual assault for the last one year.  According to the witness he used to 

talk with all his children including 'P' and his daughter 'P', his son Suraj, 

himself and his wife used to sit at the aforesaid Tea Stall. According to 

the witness his younger brother Ravinder Kumar Robin used to reside 

with   him   and   on  the  day he came to know of the pregnancy of  his 

daughter   Ravinder   Kumar   was   called   by   him   from   his   work   place. 

Witness has admitted that Karuna is his niece who is residing with him 

after the incident.  He has further deposed that his daughter 'P' used to 

go to supply the tea in the factory No. C­106 only and not to other 

factories and whenever she used to supply tea at C­106, his tea stall was 

used to managed by his son Suraj. According to the witness his son 

Suraj never complained to him regarding anything which was abnormal 

at   any   point   of   time   nor   he   (Suraj)   told   him   that   'P'   came   crying, 

terrified from C­106 at any point of time.  According to the witness his 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy              Page No. 18 of 93
 elder son Sushil used to reside with his elder brother.  The witness has 

deposed that his daughter 'P' told him that she will not go to C­106 for 

supply of tea and when she refused to go to factory No. C­106, he used 

to go there to supply tea and for the last two years he was going to 

supply   tea   and   'P'   was   not   going   to   supply   tea   in   C­106.     She   has 

deposed   that   the   distance   between   his   Tea   Stall   and   the   office   of 

accused Lucky Singh and Vicky Singh may be about 10 or 15 steps. 

According to the witness the office of Lucky Singh and Vickey Singh is 

not visible from his Tea Stall.  Witness has denied that his shop and the 

gate   of   C­106   are   adjacent   to   each   other   and   that   he   was   deposing 

falsely in this regard.  The witness has deposed that he was not having 

any document to prove the age of his daughter 'P' so he could not give 

the same to the police. Witness has denied the suggestion that he has 

deliberately mentioned the age of his daughter 'P' as 13 years to falsely 

implicate   the   accused   persons.   Witness   has   denied   that   age   of   his 

daughter was more than 18 years.  
(18)             The witness has further deposed that  he came Delhi from 

his native place for about four years back and for the last four years he 

was residing at C­105. The witness has again deposed that prior to 17 

months of the incident he was living at Haiderpur, Delhi.  Witness has 

denied that he was residing C­106 till 26.01.2012 and on 26.01.2012 he 

vacated the premises C­106 and shifted to C­105.  Witness has further 

denied that he demanded Rs.20,000/­ from Lucky Singh and when he 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy              Page No. 19 of 93
 refused   to   give   then   he   falsely   implicated   him   in   the   present   case. 

Witness   has   deposed   that   at   present   he   is   residing   at   C­91,   Bawana 

Industrial   area,   Bawana,   Delhi.   Witness   has   denied   that   he   had 

demanded money from the owner of C­105 for vacating the premises. 

Witness has also denied the suggestion that he has falsely implicated the 

accused   persons   to   extort   money   from   them.     Witness   has   further 

denied   the   suggestion   that   accused   persons   never   committed   any 

offence with his daughter or that he was deposing falsely.

(19)             PW21   Ravindra   Kumar   Robin  has  deposed   that   on 

28.01.2012 his elder brother namely Sunil Kumar had called him on 

which he had reached at House No. C­105, Sector 5, Bawana Industrial 

Area, Bawana, Delhi, where he was residing at that time and witness 

was   also   residing   there.     Witness   has   deposed   that   he   used   to   play 

Nukkar Natak so often used to remain out for playing Nukkar Natak in 

different areas. The witness has deposed that when he reached at the 

house i.e. C­105, Sector 5, Bawana Industrial Area, his brother Sunil 

Kumar disclosed him about the fact of pregnancy of his daughter 'P' and 

thereafter they had repeatedly asked 'P' to disclose about the matter. 

According to the witness the prosecutrix 'P' was looking scared and was 

not disclosing about the matter but after some time on being asked she 

told them that one Deepak Kumar Shah who was working in Factory 

No. C­104 as Foreman and Lucky Singh and Vicky Singh who were the 

owners of factory No. C­106 had been committing "Galat Kaam" i.e. 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 20 of 93
 rape   with   her   for   a   long   time.     The   witness   has   deposed   that   the 

prosecutrix had also told that she was also threatened by them not to 

disclose about the incident to anyone otherwise they would kill her and 

her family members. The witness has deposed that when 'P' disclosed 

these facts to them he along with his brother Sunil Kumar took 'P' to 

Police Station Shahbad Dairy where her statement was recorded by the 

police regarding the occurrence and after that she was sent to hospital 

where   she   was   medically   examined.     Witness   has   deposed   that   he 

remained   in   the   police   station   and   his   brother   Sunil   had   also 

accompanied to the hospital and after arrest of the aforesaid accused i.e. 

accused Deepak Kumar, Lucky Singh and Vicky Singh were brought to 

police station. According to the witness, thereafter 'P' was handed over 

to his brother Sunil Kumar but at that time he was directed to produce 

'P' on the next day in the police station for further investigation. The 

witness has deposed that at that time statement of the witness was also 

recorded by the police and thereafter he along with his brother and 'P' 

came   to   their   house.     The   witness   has   further   deposed   that   on 

27.01.2012 he also filed a complaint to police station Bawana which is 

Ex.PW21/A.   He   has   deposed   that   on   06.02.2012   he   had   made   a 

complaint to PS Shahbad Dairy which is Ex.PW21/B.
(20)             Addl. PP for the State with due permission of the court put 

some   leading   questions   to   the   witness   wherein   the   witness   has 

explained   that   earlier  he  had  given  28.01.2012  as   the  date  when   his 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 21 of 93
 brother Sunil Kumar had called him at his mobile at his house while in 

fact his brother had actually  informed him about two to three days prior 

to giving the complaint dated 27.01.2012.  According to the witness 'P' 

had informed them about the occurrence on 27.01.2012 and thereafter 

he had made the complaint Ex.PW21/A to Police Station Bawana and it 

was on 28.01.2012 when he along with his brother Sunil Kumar took 'P' 

to the Police Station Shahbad Dairy.   Witness has deposed that he did 

not inform the court about the aforesaid facts as he had forgotten about 

the same. 
(21)             The   witness   has   correctly   identified   the   accused   Lucky 

Singh and Vicky Singh in the court as the same who were arrested by 

the police and brought to the police station. Witness has deposed that he 

can also identify accused Deepak (Juvenile accused) if shown to him. 

(22)             In   his   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   Counsel,   the 

witness   PW21   has   deposed   that   'P'   told   him   about   the   incident   on 

28.01.2012   as   he   was   away  from   the   house   before   28.01.2012.     The 

witness has deposed that  at that time he was in Delhi when he was 

called by his brother.  He has further deposed that his brother had called 

him on 28.01.2012.   According to the witness, the elder son of Sunil 

Kumar   was   residing   with   his   eldest   brother   namely   Anil   Kumar   at 

Sultanpur,   Mehrauli,   Delhi,   but   he   had   not   visited   the   house   of   his 

brother Sunil 8 or 10 months prior to 28.01.2012. Witness has denied 

that   he   intentionally   did   not   mention   about   the   complaints   or   that 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 22 of 93
 because of this reason he gave a evasive answer that he forgot to tell 

about his above said complaints. Witness has voluntarily deposed that 

he had inadvertently mentioned the date as 28.01.2012 while in fact he 

had visited the house of his brother on 27.01.2012 and prior to 8 or 10 

months of 27.01.2012 he had not visited the house of his brother Sunil 

Kumar.   Witness   has   denied   the   suggestion   that   he   was   intentionally 

giving   a   false   explanation   to   fill   up   the   loop   holes   or   that   he   in 

connivance of his brother falsely implicating the accused persons by 

making false complaint in the police station to extort money from the 

accused persons.  The witness has admitted that he was having a mobile 

phone and his brother called him by making a call at his mobile phone. 

Witness has denied the suggestion that nothing wrong was happened 

with   his   niece   'P'   or   that   he   intentionally   implicating   the   accused 

persons in the present case.   The witness has denied that his niece 'P' 

was not a girl of low IQ or that she was having a good IQ but to falsely 

implicate the accused persons in the present case he mention her as a 

girl of lower IQ and intentionally give lower age i.e. 13 years.  



Police/ Official Witnesses:
(23)             PW1 HC Murari Lal  is a formal witness who has been 

examined by way of affidavit which is Ex.PW1/1 (as per the provisions 

of Section 296 Cr.P.C.).   He has deposed that he was posted as MHC 

(M) at Police Station Shahbad Dairy since 13.01.2012 and on 28.01.2012 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy              Page No. 23 of 93
 he received one sample seal sealed with the seal of MS MB Hospital 

and seizure memo from SI Mukesh Kumar vide entry in register no.19 

and mud no. 811/12. He has deposed that Further he deposed that on 

29.01.2012 he received the exhibits i.e.   blood sealed, blood sample, 

pubic hair and sample seal of accused Tejinder Singh, Deepak Kumar 

Shah and Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh and seizure memos from SI 

Mukesh Kumar sealed with the seal of MS MB Hospital, Pooth Khurd, 

Delhi   vide   entry   in   register   no.19   and   mud   no.   811/12.   Further   on 

05.03.2012   he   received   the   exhibits   of   the   prosecutrix,   one   envelop 

containing blood sample, blood on gauze piece, scalp hair, pubic hair, 

vaginal swab and seizure memo from SI Mukesh Kumar sealed with the 

seal of MS MB Hospital, Pooth Khurd, Delhi vide entry in register no.

19 and mud no. 913/12. He has further deposed that on 09.03.2012, he 

handed over the exhibits of accused persons and of prosecutrix vide RC 

no. 28/21/12  Ex.PW1/C  to constable Ram Kishore for depositing the 

same   in   FSL   Rohini   which   is   entered   in   register   no.19   at   serial   no. 

811/12  Ex.PW1/A  and 913/12  Ex.PW1/B  and copy of RC  Ex.PW1/D 

was handed over to him by constable  Ram Kishore after depositing in 

FSL. On  30.03.2012 he  received the exhibits of newly born baby of 

prosecutrix, one envelop containing blood on gauze piece, one envelop 

containing sealed blood sample in plain bulb and sample seal all sealed 

with   the   seal   of   MS   MB   Hospital,   Pooth   Khurd,   Delhi   and   seizure 

memo from SI Mukesh Kumar vide entry in register no.19 and mud no. 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy             Page No. 24 of 93
 961/12  Ex.PW1/E. On 13.04.2012, he handed over the exhibits of the 

newly born baby of prosecutrix   vide RC no. 68/21/12  Ex.PW1/F  to 

constable   Ramesh   for  depositing   in   FLS   Rohini   which   is   entered   in 

Register no. 19 at serial no. 961/12 and copy of RC  Ex.PW1/G  was 

handed   over   to   him   by   constable   Ramesh   after   depositing   in   FSL. 

Witness was not cross­examined by Ld. Defence Counsel for both the 

accused persons though opportunity was given and the entire testimony 

has gone uncontroverted. 
(24)             PW2 Ct. Ramesh Kumar is a formal witness who has been 

examined by way of affidavit which is Ex.PW2/1 (as per the provisions 

of Section 296 Cr.P.C.)  bearing his signatures at points A and B and 

also relied upon documents i.e. seizure memo Ex.PW2/A, bearing his 

signatures at point A. In his affidavit he deposed that on 05.03.2012 he 

was   posted   at   PS   Shahbad   Dairy   and  went   to  MB   Hospital   with  SI 

Mukesh   Kumar   where   the   following   exhibits   of   prosecutrix   were 

received by SI Mukesh Kumar i.e. (i) one envelope containing blood 

sample, (ii) one envelope containing of blood one gauze piece (iii) one 

envelope containing scalp hair (iv) one envelope containing pubic hair 

and (v) one envelope containing vaginal swab, all sealed with the seal 

of MS MB Hospital, Pooth Khurd, Delhi, 

(25)             The witness has further deposed that the above said samples 

were seized by SI Mukesh Kumar and he also signed on the seizure 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy       Page No. 25 of 93
 memo.   According   to   the   witness,   on   13.04.2012,   he   received   the 

exhibits of the above mentioned case, sample seal from HC Murari Lal 

through RC No. 68/21/12 for depositing in FSL / Rohini and copy of RC 

was handed over too HC Murari Lal and that the sealed exhibits were in 

safe and no any kind of tempering with its during his custody. Witness 

was   not   cross­examined  by   the   Ld.   Defence   Counsel   and   hence   his 

entire testimony has gone uncontroverted. 
(26)             PW3 Ct. Ram Kishore  is a formal witness who has been 

examined by way of affidavit which is Ex.PW3/1 (as per the provisions 

of Section 296 Cr.P.C.)  bearing his signatures at points A and B and 

also relied upon the RC No.28/21/12 which was already Ex.PW­1/C. He 

deposed through his affidavit that on 09.03.2012, he was posted at PS 

Shahbad   Dairy,   Delhi   and   when   he   reached   in   the   malkhana   of   PS 

Shahbad   Dairy   he   received   exhibits   of   above   mentioned   case   and 

sample   seal   from   HC   Murari   Lal   through   RC   No.   28/21/12   for 

depositing the same in FSL Rohini and copy of RC was handed over to 

HC Murari Lal and and that the sealed exhibits were in safe and no any 

kind of tempering with its during his custody.  Witness was not cross­

examined by the Ld. Defence Counsel and hence the entire testimony 

has gone uncontroverted. 
(27)             PW4   Ct.   Vikram  is   a   formal   witness   who   has   been 

examined by way of affidavit which is Ex.PW4/1 (as per the provisions 



St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy       Page No. 26 of 93
 of Section 296 Cr.PC)  and also proved the seizure memo  Ex.PW4/A. 

He has deposed that on 30.03.2012, he was posted as constable in PS 

Shahbad Dairy, Delhi and went to MB Hospital, Pooth Khurd, Delhi 

with SI Mukesh Kumar where prosecutrix 'P' met with newly born baby 

and doctor provided the following blood sample of newly born baby of 

'P' i.e. (i) one envelope containing blood on gauge piece of newly born 

baby of 'P', (ii) one envelope containing sealed blood sample in plain 

bulb of newly born baby of 'P' (iii) sample seal, all sealed with the seal 

of MS MB Hospital, Pooth Khurd, Delhi. 
(28)             PW5   SI   Anil  Kumar  is  a formal  witness who has been 

examined by way of affidavit which is Ex.PW5/1 (as per the provisions 

of Section 296 Cr.P.C.)  bearing his signatures at points A and B and 

also   relied   upon   the   Crime   Team   Report  Ex.PW5/A.   He   deposed 

through his affidavit that on 29.01.2012, he was posted as I/C Crime 

Team, Outer District, Delhi and he received an information and reached 

at   the   spot   along   with   constable   Manish   (photographer)   i.e.   C­105, 

Sector­5,   DSIDC,   Bawana,   Delhi   where   prosecutrix   'P'   d/o.   Sunil 

Kumar along with SI Mukesh Kumar met them and after pointing out 

the site was inspected by him and photographs of the place of incident 

were taken by the photographer and that he had submitted the report to 

the IO.



St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy       Page No. 27 of 93
 (29)             PW6 Ct.   Manish  is   a   formal   witness   who   has   been 

examined by way of affidavit which is Ex.PW6/1 (as per the provisions 

of Section 296 Cr.P.C.)  bearing his signatures at points A and B and 

also   relied   upon   the   documents   i.e.   photographs  Ex.PW6/A­1  to 

Ex.PW6/A­11  and   the   negatives  Ex.PW­6/D.  Further   he   deposed 

through his affidavit that on 29.01.2012 he was posted as photographer 

at   Crime   Team,   Outer   District,  Delhi   and  went   to    C­105,  Sector­5, 

DSIDC,   Bawana,   Delhi   along   with   SI   Anil   Kumar,   I/C   Crime 

Team/Outer   Distt.   and   he   has   taken   photographs   of   the   place   of 

occurrence   i.e.   C­104,   C­105   &   C­106,   Sector­5,   DSIDC,   Bawana, 

Delhi on the pointing out of the prosecutrix 'P' and that the photographs 

had been handed over to Investigating officer. 
(30)             PW7 HC John Patric has been examined by way affidavits 

which is Ex.PW7/A and has relied upon the copy of FIR  Ex.PW7/A 

and   the   endorsement   on   rukka  Ex.PW7/B.     He   has   not   been   cross 

examined on behalf of the accused and the entire testimony as gone 

uncontroverted.
(31)             PW8 W/Ct. Seema  has been examined on affidavit which 

is  Ex.PW8/1.   He has proved the seizure memo  Ex.PW8/A.   In his 

cross   examination   the   witness   has   deposed   that   the   statement   of 

prosecutrix was recorded around 4:30 pm and as far as he recollect, the 

mother of the prosecutrix was present and that the NGO representative 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy      Page No. 28 of 93
 was also present three at that time.  According to the witness, the NGO 

representative also accompanied the prosecutrix to the hospital. He has 

denied that statement of prosecutrix was recorded on the tutoring of the 

family members or that she did not state anything. 
(32)             PW22     Const.   Virender   Rathee  has   deposed   that   on 

28.01.2012 he was posted at Police Station Shahbad Diary and on that 

day at about 5.30 p.m., the duty officer handed over to copy of FIR No. 

32/12 u/s 376/506/34 IPC along with the original tehrir and directed 

him to go to DSIDC Sector 5 Bawana and handed over the same to SI 

Mukesh. He has deposed that he reached sector 5 Bawana where he met 

SI Mukesh, Const. Karan, lady Const. Seema, prosecutrix 'P' and her 

father Sunil and he handed over the copy of FIR and original tehrir to SI 

Mukesh.  He has further deposed that thereafter on the pointing out of 

prosecutrix 'P' they went to C 104 Sector 5 Bawana where Deepak Shah 

was present and she identified as the boy who had committed rape on 

her, on which Deepak was apprehended and arrested. According to the 

witness,   thereafter   Deepak   was   interrogated   and   his   disclosure 

statement was recorded by SI Mukesh and his custody was handed over 

to   him.   Witness   has   deposed   that   prosecutrix   also   named   two   other 

persons   namely   Tejinder   @   Lucky   and   Vikram   @   Vicky   owners   of 

factory No. C­106 as the persons who had been committing rape on her. 

The witness has deposed that Deepak disclosed that he knew the house 

of Tejinder @ Lucky on which they all went to H. No.  330­331 Pocket 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy        Page No. 29 of 93
 4 Sector 22 Rohini where they found Tejinder on the third floor and he 

was identified by 'P' and on her pointing out he was arrested vide memo 

Ex.PW10/C bearing his signature at point B. According to the witness, 

he was also personally searched the jamatalashi revealed two mobile 

phones one of Nokia and the other of Tata Indicome and also Rs.4,700/­ 

and a leather purse on which the personal search memo was prepared 

vide Ex.PW20/A   bearing his signature at point B. According to him, 

the accused Lucky (correctly identified) was thereafter interrogated by 

the   IO   and   his   disclosure   statement   was   recorded   which   was 

Ex.PW­10/G bearing his signature at point C wherein he disclosed the 

address of Vicky as B­74, Guru Nanak Enclave, Chander Vihar, Vikas 

Puri.  
(33)             The witness has deposed that thereafter they all along with 

accused Deepak and Lucky went to B­74, Guru Nanak Enclave where 

they found one person coming out of the said house and the prosecutrix 

identified  him as Vikram Singh @ Vicky   who arrested vide memo 

Ex.PW10/D  bearing his signature at point  C.  The witness has further 

deposed that the accused Vikram Singh was personally searched which 

revealed one mobile phone make Havi, Rs.640/­ , one leather purse and 

RC of a motor cycle and his personal search memo was prepared vide 

Ex.PW­20/B bearing his signature at point B.  The witness has deposed 

that   the   accused   Vikram   Singh   @   Vicky  (correctly   identified)  was 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy    Page No. 30 of 93
 thereafter   interrogated   by   the   IO   and   his   disclosure   statement   was 

recorded which was  Ex. PW­10/H   bearing his signature at point C. 

According to him, thereafter all the accused took them to Sector 5 C 

106, where they pointed out the office where they had committed the 

offence with the prosecutrix  (objected to by the Ld. Defence counsel)  

and the said pointing out memo  Ex.PW10/I,  bearing his signature at 

point C, prepared on the behest of accused Lucky Singh. The witness 

has deposed that the pointing out memo prepared on behest of accused 

Vikram Singh was  Ex. PW10/J  bearing his signature at point C.   He 

has further deposed that thereafter, they all returned to P.S. and from 

the P.S. they went to M.B. Hospital, Pooth Kalan, Delhi for medical 

examination of the accused Deepak, Tajinder @ Lucky and Vikrem @ 

Vicky and  after  the  medical examination of the accused persons the 

doctor   handed   over   the   exhibits   pertaining   to   the   accused   Deepak, 

Lucky Singh, Vicky Singh and the prosecutrix and the sample seal of 

the   hospital   to   the   IO   who   seized   the   same   vide   seizure   memos 

Ex.PW22/A and PW22/B bearing his signature at point A. The witness 

has deposed that they then returned to the police station and the accused 

were produced before the Ld. MM during the day.  
(34)             In his cross examination by the Ld. Defence Counsel, the 

witness  has  deposed  that  they have reached at the house of  accused 

Tejinder at about 9.35 p.m. but he had not made any departure entry 

separately. Witness has denied that  Deepak never disclosed the name of 
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy       Page No. 31 of 93
 accused Lucky Singh and Vikram Singh. Witness has also denied the 

suggestion   that   accused   Lucky   Singh   and   Vikram   Singh   were   not 

arrested   from   their   house   at   the   instance   of   accused   Deepak   and 

prosecutrix.   According   to   him   they   stayed   at   the   house   of   accused 

Lucky for about 20­25 minutes. He has deposed that Sector­5 is at a 

distance   of   5   to   6   km.   from   Guru   Nanak   Enclave,   Chander   Vihar. 

Witness   has   denied   the   suggestion   that   no   disclosure   statement   was 

made by accused Lucky Singh and Vikram Singh or that that both were 

called at the P.S. and were arrested in this case.  He has also denied that 

he signed all the documents at P.S. at the instance of the IO to falsely 

implicate the accused persons in the present case.   They all went in a 

private vehicle which was hired by the IO of the case. The witness is 

unable   to   tell   the   number   of   that   vehicle.   Witness   has   denied   the 

suggestion that nothing happened in the manner as deposed by him in 

his examination in chief or that he was deposing falsely at the instance 

of the IO.  According to the witness, when they reached at the house of 

accused   persons   their   family   members   were   also   present.     He   has 

deposed that the IO did not make any effort to call any neighbour to 

become witness of the disclosure statement of accused persons.  He is 

unable  to  tell how much time was taken by the IO in preparing the 

disclosure statement of accused Vikram Singh and same was his reply 

about the disclosure statement of accused Lucky Singh. The witness has 

admitted the suggestion that  factory No. C 106 is surrounded by other 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 32 of 93
 factories. 
(35)             PW23 SI Mukesh Kumar has deposed that on 28.01.2012 

he was posted as SI at PS Shahbad Dairy. Witness has deposed that on 

that day prosecutrix was brought to the police station by her father Sunil 

Kumar and her uncle Ravindra Kumar Robin and at that time 'P' had got 

recorded her statement to him regarding the occurrence and the same is 

Ex.PW10/A on which 'P' had signed at point A and at that time he had 

informed one Nazma of NGO­Nav Srishti Sanstha but she had sent one 

lady namely Ganga who came at the police station later on though prior 

to arrival of NGO­Ganga he had made rukka on the statement of 'P' for 

registration of a case U/s 376(2)(g)/506 IPC and handed over the same 

to Duty Officer for registration of the case. According to the witness, 

the Rukka Ex.PW23/A is the same which was made by him which bear 

his signatures at point A. He has further deposed that after handing over 

the   rukka   to   Duty   Officer   he   along   with   lady   Ct.   Seema   took 

prosecutrix along with her father to M B Hospital Pooth Khurd where 

on the prosecutrix was got medically examined with her consent and 

also with the consent of her father.  The witness has also deposed that 

after medical examination the sample seal was given by the doctor to 

Lady   Ct.   Seema   which   was   taken   into   possession   by   him   vide 

Ex.PW8/A which bears signatures of the witness at point B. According 

to the witness, after that they have reached at Factory. No. C­105, Sector 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy     Page No. 33 of 93
 5,   Bawana   Industrial   Area,   Bawana,   Delhi   and   after   some   time   Ct. 

Virender had come to him and gave copy of FIR and original rukka to 

the him (witness) and thereafter he along with prosecutrix, her father 

Sunil   Kumar,   Ct.   Virender   and   Ct.   Karan   had   reached   at   factory 

No.C­104 where accused Deepak Kumar Shah was found present.  The 

witness   has   deposed   that   accused   was   apprehended   by   him   at   the 

instance of prosecutrix and after interrogation he was arrested by him in 

this case and arrest memo of accused was prepared and his personal 

search was also conducted by witness. The witness has further deposed 

that the accused had also made disclosure statement to the witness and 

after that he also pointed out the place of occurrence at factory No. 

C­105.   According to him after that accused Deepak took them at the 

house bearing No. 330/31, Pocket­IV, Sector 22, Rohini, Delhi where 

accused Lucky Singh was found present there and he was apprehended 

at the instance of prosecutrix and after interrogation he was arrested in 

this case vide arrest memo  Ex.PW10/C  which bears signatures of the 

witness   at   point   C   and   personal   search   of   the   accused   was   also 

conducted vide Ex.PW20/A bearing signatures of the witness at point 

C.  Disclosure statement of accused Tejinder Singh @ Lucky Singh was 

recorded   vide  Ex.PW10/G  which   bears   signatures   of   the   witness   at 

point C. The witness has deposed that after that accused Lucky Singh 

took   them   at   the   house   of   accused   Vikram   Singh   i.e.   74B,   Nanak 

Enclave, Chander Vihar, Niluthi Extn., Vikas Puri, Delhi where accused 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy       Page No. 34 of 93
 Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh was found present in front of his house 

and he was apprehended at the instance of prosecutrix and was arrested 

vide arrest memo Ex.PW10/D bearing signatures of the witness at point 

D   and   personal   search   of   the   accused   was   conducted   vide   memo 

Ex.PW20/B bearing signatures of the witness at point C.  The witness 

has deposed that the accused Vickey Singh had also got recorded his 

disclosure statement  Ex.PW10/H  bearing signature of the witness at 

point D. According to the witness, thereafter both the accused Vicky 

Singh and Lucky Singh took them at C­106 where they point out the 

place   of   occurrence   i.e.   his   office   inside   the   factory   where   they 

committed rape upon the prosecutrix on which separate pointing out 

memo   of   accused   Tejinder   Singh   @   Lucky   Singh  Ex.PW10/I  was 

prepared which bears signatures of the witness at point B and pointing 

out memo of accused Vicky Singh which is  Ex.PW10/J was prepared 

bearing signatures of the witness at point D. The witness has deposed 

that after that they all along with the three accused came back to the 

police   station   where   NGO­Ganga   was   found   present   at   the   police 

station.  According to him, Ganga had made enquiries from prosecutrix 

and the statement of   'P' which is  Ex.PW10/A  was recorded which is 

bearing signatures of Ganga at point B and signatures of prosecutrix is 

at point A.   The witness has deposed that after that on the request of 

Sunil Kumar custody of prosecutrix was handed over to him and at that 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy        Page No. 35 of 93
 time undertaking Ex.PW20/C, which bears signatures of the witness at 

point B and signatures of Sunil Kumar at point A, was taken from Sunil 

Kumar to produce the prosecutrix on the next day in the police station 

as the statement of prosecutrix U/s 164 Cr. P. C. was to be got recorded 

by the concerned Ld. MM.  According to the witness after that all the 

three   accused   namely   Deepak,   Lucky   Singh   and   Vicky   Singh   were 

taken to MB Hospital where they were got medically examined.  He has 

deposed that both the Ct. Virender and Karan also accompanied him to 

the hospital and after medical examination of the accused the doctor 

handed over to him the exhibits along with sample seals which were 

taken into possession by him. The witness has deposed the exhibit of 

accused   Lucky   Singh   were   taken   into   possession   by   him   vide 

Ex.PW22/A and that of Vickey Singh vide seizure memo Ex.PW22/B. 

According to the witness in the morning of 29.01.2012 Crime Team was 

called and Crime Team came at the spot and inspected the places of 

occurrence   and   prepared   its   report  Ex.PW5/A  and   Crime   Team 

photographer   Ct.   Manish   had   taken   photographs   of   the   places   of 

occurrence  at   the  instance of  prosecutrix.    The witness has furthe3r 

deposed   that  at   that   time he  prepared  the  site  plan of  the  places  of 

occurrence   at   the   instance   of   the   prosecutrix   and   the   same   is 

Ex.PW23/B. The witness has also deposed that application was moved 

before the Ld. MM for getting statement U/s 164 Cr. P. C. recorded and 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy     Page No. 36 of 93
 the same was Ex.PX­2 and statement of prosecutrix U/s 164 Cr. PC was 

recorded by Ld. MM.  The witness has deposed that on 08.02.2012 he 

received one complaint dated 06.02.2012 made by R. K. Robin in which 

he has also alleged the role of two more persons namely Rajesh and 

Ganesh.  He made efforts to find out these two persons but they could 

not be found as no father's name and address was mentioned in this 

complaint.   According   to   the   witness,   on   05.03.2012   the   exhibits   of 

prosecutrix   were   received   from   the   hospital   which   he   taken   into 

possession vide Ex.PW2/A. 
(36)             The witness has further deposed that he was out station and 

he came to know about the delivery of the male child by prosecutrix at 

her house i.e. C­105 and that thereafter she and the child had been taken 

to the hospital. He went to the MB Hospital and got collected the blood 

sample of newly born baby which blood sample was handed over to him 

by   the   doctor   along   with   the   sample   seal   which   he   seized   vide 

Ex.PW4/A bearing signatures of the witness at point B. He went back 

to the police station and deposited the exhibits in the Malkhana and also 

recorded the statement of Ct. Vikram who was with him in the hospital. 

According to the witness on 13.04.2012 the fresh exhibits were sent to 

FSL   through   Ct.   Ramesh   and   statement   of   Ct.   Ramesh   and 

supplementary statement of Ct. Ramesh was recorded. He has deposed 

that he had  collected the affidavit of Sunil Kumar regarding date of 

birth of prosecutrix and the same was taken into possession vide seizure 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy       Page No. 37 of 93
 memo  Ex.PW23/D  which   bears   his   signatures   at   point   A   and 

Ex.PW23/E was the same affidavit which was taken by him from Sunil 

Kumar. Thereafter on 28.01.2012 a complaint was received from one 

Sh. R. K. Robin and after completion of investigations he prepared the 

charge sheet and filed the same in the court on 24.04.2012.  The witness 

has   further   deposed   that   on   13.07.2012   the   ossification   test   of   the 

prosecutrix was got conducted in BJRM Hospital vide Ex.PW15/A and 

he collected the FSL report Ex.PW14/A and submitted the same in the 

court along with ossification test report on 09.08.2012.  The witness has 

collected DNA test report  Ex.PW13/A  and submitted the same in the 

court on 31.08.2012. 
(37)             In cross examination by Ld. Defence Counsel, the witness 

has denied that the statement of the prosecutrix on the basis of which 

the Tehrir was prepared was not recorded by him. Witness has denied 

that the prosecutrix had been tutored by the representative of the NGO 

only after which he recorded her statement. Witness has deposed that 

the statement of the prosecutrix was recorded by him at 3.30 p.m. in the 

Police Station itself. According to him, at the time when the prosecutrix 

was   taken   to   the   hospital   only   her   father   Sunil   accompanied   her. 

Witness   has   deposed   that   the   representative   of   the   NGO   did   not 

accompany   them   to   the   hospital.   Witness   has   denied   that   the 

prosecutrix had only made allegations against Deepak and that Vikram 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 38 of 93
 and Tejinder were implicated later on and has voluntarily added that 

that she had made allegations against all the three accused persons. The 

witness has admitted that there are other factories around C­105 and 

most of them are under construction. Witness has denied the suggestion 

that   the   area   in   question   is   thickly   inhabited   and   large   number   of 

persons   reside   in   the   area.   Witness   has   deposed   in   his   cross­

examination that the factory where the family of the prosecutrix was 

residing i.e. C­ 105 there was no other family except the family of the 

prosecutrix. Witness has denied the suggestion that apart from Deepak 

there are other persons residing in C­104. Witness deposed that he had 

measured the room and the room pointed out by the prosecutrix in C 

106 is a small office used as a office measuring about 8 x 9 feet with 

one table and about two chairs and that there was no provision in the 

room for taking rest, that there was no bed or bench in the said room. 

Witness has denied that in case of any alarm being raised in the room 

on ground floor in C 106 voices can be heard outside though witness 

voluntarily deposed that no voices can be heard because there was a 

gate installed outside and if closed no voices can go out. Witness has 

admitted   the   suggestion   that   the   prosecutrix   had   not   told   him   the 

residential addresses of both the accused Lucky Singh and Vicky Singh 

and they had gone to the house of Lucky Singh as Deepak had taken 

them there and Lucky Singh was the one who had taken them to the 

house of Vicky Singh. Witness has further explained that they reached 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 39 of 93
 at the house of Lucky Singh at about 9.30 p.m. and the place where he 

stays was a residential area and he did not join any neighbour in the 

investigation   and   that   the   arrest,   personal   search   and   the   disclosure 

statement   of   Lucky   Singh   do   not   bear   the   signatures   of   any   public 

person. Witness has voluntarily deposed that it was night at that time 

and hence, it became difficult to join any public persons. According to 

him he  completed  all  the documentations in respect  of Lucky Singh 

standing outside his house under the street light. According to him, the 

chowkidar of the area was not joined in the investigation, as he could 

not find him. He has deposed that they left the house of Lucky Singh at 

about 10.05 p.m. and thereafter went to the house of Vicky Singh which 

is about 7 kms. away from the house of Lucky Singh and reached there 

in about 10 minutes time.   The witness has deposed that the house of 

Vicky Singh is situated in a residential area and he did not join any 

neighbour or any public person in the investigation though voluntarily 

stated that it was late night and there was nobody available.  According 

to   the   witness,   it   took   him   about   half   an   hour   to   complete   the 

documentations   in   respect   of   Vicky   Singh,   that   all   the   documents 

prepared in respect of Vicky Singh do not bear the   signatures of any 

public witness. Witness has denied the suggestion that he recorded the 

statement   of   Lucky   Singh   and   Vicky   Singh   of   his   own   and   after 

obtaining their signatures on blank papers.  Witness has also denied the 

suggestion that the accused did not point out any place of occurrence or 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 40 of 93
 that he prepared the pointing out memo of his own. Witness has further 

denied the suggestion that the statement of the prosecutrix u/s 164 CrPC 

was got recorded after she was given sufficient opportunity of being 

tutored   by   her   family.     According   to   the   witness   the   father   of   the 

prosecutrix did not give to any authentic document regarding the date of 

birth.   He was admitted that the estimated age of the prosecutrix as 

revealed   in   the   ossification   report   was   in   between   17   to   18   years. 

Witness has denied that he had not conducted the investigations fairly or 

that   the   site   plan   prepared   by   him   is   not   correct.     The   witness   has 

deposed that the office is situated just in front of the main gate and the 

tea stall is situated inside the main gate of factory No. C­105.  Witness 

has denied the suggestion that accused Lucky Singh and Vicky Singh 

have been falsely implicated.


Witnesses of Medical Examination:
(38)             PW9 Dr. Subhash  has deposed that on 30.03.12, he was 

posted as Senior Resident in the above said department of the hospital 

and on that day, IO moved an application for a blood sample of the 

newly born baby of prosecutrix and his HOD directed him to obtain the 

blood sample of newly born baby. He obtained the blood sample newly 

born baby i.e. boy of 'P' and the same was kept in a glass vial and in the 

gauze piece and both were kept in a envelop and same was handed over 

to the IO in sealed condition with the sample seal to SI Mukesh Kumar. 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy              Page No. 41 of 93
 He prepared the application of SI Mukesh Kumar is Ex.PW­9/A which 

bears his signatures at point A. According to the witness, the above said 

newly   born   boy   was   admitted   in   the   hospital   and   he   prepared   his 

discharge slip which is Ex.PW­9/B which bears his signatures at point 

A. Witness was not cross­examined  by Sh.Deepak Ghai, Advocate for 

both the accused persons despite opportunity in this court.

(39)             PW11 Dr. Neha Kumari  has deposed that on 28.01.2012 

the   prosecutrix,   aged   13   years   was   brought   at   the   casualty   of   the 

hospital   by   L/Ct.   Seema   for   medical   examination   and   Dr.   Sidharth 

medically examined her and prepared her MLC No. 318/12 vide MLC 

EX PW 11/A and Dr. Sidharth referred the patient to Gynae department 

for further physical examination and management. Witness has further 

deposed that on  the same day, in the Gynae department at about 5:30 

PM she medically examined the prosecutrix.   She has deposed that in 

her medical examination she found hymen of the patient obviously in 

torn   condition,   IQ   level   of   the   patient   was   good.     The   witness   has 

deposed that during the medical examination she found the prosecutrix 

eight   month   pregnant   at   the   time   of   examination.    She   gave  her 

observations on the MLC EX PW 11/A at encircled portion from point 

X to X1 which bears her signatures at point A and B.   Witness also 

handed over blood sample in five vials, blood on gauze piece, scalp 

hair, pubic hair and vaginal swab from four sides and handed over the 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 42 of 93
 same to the IO in sealed condition along with the sample seal to the IO. 

The witness has also prepared the medical documents in respect of the 

above said   patient  for her medical  examination which were  EX PW 

11/B (running into 18 pages).
(40)             In   her   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   Counsel,   the 

witness   has   deposed   that   when   prosecutrix   came   for   medical 

examination she was showing all the visible symptoms and character of 

a pregnant women. She has deposed that abdomen was distending about 

32 weeks and it was clearly visible, the fetal heart sound was present 

and found regular and patient did not complaint to me any other illness.

(41)             PW12 Dr. S. N. Siddharth has deposed that on 28.01.2012 

he was working as Medical Officer in Maharshi Valmiki Hospital and 

on that day prosecutrix, female aged about 13 years was brought before 

him   for   medical   examination.   The   witness   has   deposed   that   on 

examination he found the patient conscious and the patient had told the 

alleged   history   of   being   pregnant   therefore   she   was   referred   to   SR 

Gynae   for   further   physical   examination   and   management   and 

accordingly the patient was examined in the Gynae Department. He had 

also prepared MLC bearing no. 318/12  Ex.PW11/A  which was in his 

handwriting and bearing his signatures at point C. 

(42)             The witness has deposed that on 29.01.2012 at 1.45AM he 

had also examined  Vikram Singh S/o Jagjeet  a male aged about 27 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy         Page No. 43 of 93
 years who was brought by SI Mukesh Kumar for medical examination 

and on examination he found   that his penis was well developed and 

uncircumcised.   The witness has deposed that his pubic and axillary 

hairs were present and there was nothing to suggest that the patient was 

not capable to perform sexual intercourse. The witness has deposed that 

his blood sample was taken, loose pubic hair were also taken and sealed 

with the seal of hospital and handed over to the IO.   The witness has 

deposed that he had also prepared MLC bearing no. 327/12 regarding 

the aforesaid examination which is Ex.PX­6 (admitted by the accused) 

which was in handwriting of the witness and bear his signatures at point 

A and also at point B.
(43)             The witness has further deposed that on the same day he 

had also examined one  Tejinder @ Lucky S/o Darshan  a male aged 

about   30   years   who   was   brought   by   SI   Mukesh   for   medical 

examination.   The witness had deposed that on examination he found 

that his penis was well developed and uncircumcised, pubic and axillary 

hairs were present and there was nothing to suggest that the patient was 

not capable to perform sexual intercourse. According to the witness the 

blood sample of the accused was taken, loose pubic hair were also taken 

and sealed with the seal of hospital and handed over to the IO.   The 

witness has deposed that he had also prepared MLC bearing no. 326/12 

Ex.PX­5   (admitted   by   the   accused)  regarding   the   aforesaid 

examination.   In his cross examination by the counsel for the accused 
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy   Page No. 44 of 93
 the   witness   has   deposed   that   at   the   time   prosecutrix   was   produced 

before him, her abdomen was distended.  
(44)             PW15 Dr. Shipra Rampal,  (Radiologist, BJRM Hospital) 

has deposed that on 13.07.2012, the prosecutrix 'P', alleged age around 

13 years was produced before the medical board comprising of herself, 

Dr. Javed Salam and Dr. Abhilasha for the purpose of ascertaining her 

bone  age.  According  to  the witness, she carried out  the radiological 

examination   of   the   prosecutrix   after   her   physical   and   dental 

examination and on the basis of the said examinations they had given a 

report which is Ex.PW15/A bearing her signature at point A, signatures 

of Dr. Abhilasha at point B and signatures of Dr. Javed Salam at point C 

and that of Dr. Niyati Srivastava at point D. According to the report the 

estimated age of 'P' Kumari D/o Sunil Kumar   between 17 to 18 years. 

In   her   cross­examination   by   Ld.   Defence   Counsel,   the   witness   has 

deposed that as per their  examination, the prosecutrix was more than 17 

and less than 18 years.  
(45)             PW16   Dr.   Abhilasha  (Civil   Assistant,   Dental   Surgeon, 

BJRM   Hospital)   has   deposed   that   on   13.07.2012   the   prosecutrix   'P', 

alleged age  around 13 years was produced before the medical board 

comprising of herself, Dr. Javed Salam and Dr. Shipra Ram Pal for the 

purpose of ascertaining her bone age. The witness has deposed that she 

carried out the dental examination of the patient, after her physical and 

radiological examination and on the basis of the said examinations they 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy        Page No. 45 of 93
 have given a report  Ex.PW15/A  bearing signature of Dr. Shipra Ram 

Pal at point A, her signatures at point B and signatures of Dr. Javed 

Salam   at   point   C   and   that   of   Dr.   Niyati   Srivastava   at   point   D. 

According   to   the   report   the   estimated   age   of   'P'   Kumari   D/o   Sunil 

Kumar    between   17   to   18   years.    The   witness   has   not   been   cross 

examined on behalf of the accused and the entire testimony has gone 

uncontroverted.
(46)             PW17   Dr.   Niyati   Srivastava  (SR   BJRM   Hospital),   has 

deposed   that   on   13.07.2012   prosecutrix   aged   around   13   years   was 

brought   /   produced   before   her   by   SI   Mukesh   Kumar   for   her   age 

determination   /   ossification   test.   The   witness   has   deposed   that   she 

conducted   the   physical   examination   of   the   prosecutrix   and   gave   her 

findings on the MLC Ex.PW15/A bearing her signature at point D. The 

witness has not been cross examined on behalf of the accused and the 

entire testimony has gone uncontroverted.
(47)             PW18 Dr. Javed Salam (Junior Medical Specialist, BJRM 

Hospital)  has deposed that on 13.07.2012 the prosecutrix, alleged age 

around 13 years was produced before the medical board comprising of 

herself (witness), Dr. Shipra Ram Pal and Dr. Abhilasha for the purpose 

of  ascertaining  her  bone  age. According to the witness, she was the 

Member of the Board who carried out the Radiological Examination, 

physical and dental examination of the prosecutrix 'P' and on the basis 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 46 of 93
 of the said examinations they had given a report which is Ex.PW15/A 

bearing signature of Dr. Shipra Ram Pal at point A signatures of Dr. 

Abhilasha at point B and her signatures at point C and that of Dr. Niyati 

Srivastava at point D. According to the report the estimated age of the 

prosecutrix 'P' has been found between 17 to 18 years.  The witness has 

not   been   cross   examined   on   behalf   of   the   accused   and   the   entire 

testimony has gone uncontroverted. 


Witnesses from Forensic Laboratory: 
(48)             PW13     Sh.   A.   K.   Shrivastava,  (Deputy   Director,   DNA 

Unit,   FSL)   has   deposed   that   a   total   number   of   five   parcels   were 

received   in   the   FSL,   DNA   Unit   for   purposes   of   examination   in   the 

present case. According to him, after conducting a detailed examination 

he gave his report Ex.PW13/A bearing his signatures on various point 

marked A.   According to the witness, the source of the exhibits i.e. "1 

(blood of new born baby of 'P'), Ex.2 (blood sample of new born baby 

of prosecutrix), Ex.3 (blood sample of accused Tejinder Singh), Ex.5 

(blood of accused Deepak Kumar) and Ex.9 (blood sample of accused 

Vikram Singh), were examined. Witness has deposed that in the DNA 

examination, the source of exhibits 1, 2, 3, 5 & 9' were subjected to 

DNA isolation and the DNA was isolated from the source of exhibits 

"1, 3, 5, & 9", however DNA could not be isolated from exhibits "2". 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy         Page No. 47 of 93
 According to the witness, STR analysis was used for the sample and the 

data was analyzed by using Gene Mapper ID­X Sofware.  The witness 

has  deposed   that   on   DNA examination he found that  one set alleels 

from the source of exhibit "9" (Blood sample said to be of accused 

Vikram Singh) were accounted in the alleles from the source of exhibit 

'1' (Blood on gauze piece of new born baby of the prosecutrix 'P'). The 

witness   has   deposed   that   the   alleles   from   the   source   of   exhibits 

'3'   (Blood   said   to   be   accused   Tejinder   Singh   )   and   alleles   from   the 

source of the exhibits '5' (Blood said to be accused Deepak) were not 

accounted in the alleles from the source of the exhibits '1' (Blood on 

gauze piece of new born baby of the prosecutrix 'P').

(49)             According to the witness after the above said examination, 

he observed that the DNA profiling (STR analysis) performed on the 

exhibits '1', '2', '3', '5', and '9' provided was sufficient to conclude that 

the   source   of   exhibits   '9'   (Blood   sample   said   to   be   of   accused 

Vikram Singh) was biological father of source of exhibit '1' (Blood 

on gauze piece of new born baby of prosecutrix). The witness has not 

been cross examined on behalf of the accused and the entire testimony 

has gone uncontroverted. 
(50)             PW14   Dhruv   Sharma  (Assistant   Director,  Biology,  FSL 

Rohini) has deposed that on 09.03.2012, 14 parcels were received in the 

FSL   Rohini   in   duly   sealed   condition.   According   to   the   witness   the 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy             Page No. 48 of 93
 exhibits   /   contents   of   the   parcels   were   duly   examined   by   him 

biologically after which he gave his report vide Ex.PW14/A bearing his 

signature  at   point   A.    The   witness   has   not   been   cross   examined  on 

behalf of the accused and the entire testimony has gone uncontroverted. 



STATEMENT OF THE ACCUSED/ DEFENCE EVIDENCE: 
(51)             After completion of prosecution evidence the statement of 

the accused Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh was recorded under Section 

313 Cr.P.C. wherein all incriminating evidence was put to him which 

the accused has denied. Accused stated that he was innocent and had 

been falsely implicated. According to him he had never came in the 

factory of the father of Lucky Singh and he was working as a die maker 

at NW­9, Vishnu Garden.
(52)             Statement of the accused  Tejinder Singh @ Lucky Singh 

was   recorded   under   Section   313   Cr.P.C.   wherein   all   incriminating 

evidence was put to him which the accused has denied. He has stated 

that he was innocent and had been falsely implicated. According to him, 

the accused Vicky Singh never came in the factory in his presence as he 

was working as a die maker at NW­9, Vishnu Garden as factory C­106 

was being owned and managed by his father Darshan Singh.

(53)             Both   the   accused   have   examined   one   witness   in   their 

defence i.e. DW1 Darshan Singh who is father of accused Tejinder @ 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy        Page No. 49 of 93
 Lucky.   According   to   the   witness   he   is   running   factory   at   C­106, 

Sector­5,   DSIDC,   Bawana   and   is   into   a   business   of   bottle 

manufacturing and die making for the last three years.  The witness has 

deposed that apart from him, there are four workers who were working 

in his factory.  He has deposed that he was the owner of the factory and 

in this regard witness showed the copy of General Power of Attorney is 

Ex.DW1/A (running into four pages) and the copy of electricity bill is 

Ex.DW1/B.  According to the witness, his son Tejinder @ Lucky used 

to come with him in the factory in the morning to drop him and after 

that he used to go back to his own factory situated at 487/47, Peeragarhi, 

near Metro Station where he was doing the job of die making.   The 

witness   has   deposed   that   during   the   day   time,   his   younger   son 

Gurvinder used to stay with him and Tejinder @ Lucky never remained 

in the factory during the working hours as he had to manage the work of 

the factory situated at Peeragarhi.  The witness has further deposed that 

Sunil   Kumar   the   father   of   prosecutrix   was   residing   along   with   his 

family at the basement of his factory at Bawana as a security guard and 

on 26.1.2012 he shifted to C­105 along with his family to work there as 

security guard.   He has deposed that Sunil Kumar was running a tea 

shop in front of C­105 and only Sunil and his son Suraj used to come to 

supply tea and his daughter 'P' never came to supply tea to his labour 

and him. According to the witness on 5.1.2012 Sunil Kumar demanded 

Rs.20,000/­ and electricity bill from him and his son Tejinder @ Lucky 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy        Page No. 50 of 93
 in the morning time to which he refused and asked them to vacate the 

basement   but   Sunil   Kumar   became   annoyed   at   his   refusal   and 

threatened his son to implicate him in some false case. He has further 

deposed that the keys of the factory always remained with him and at no 

point of time his son Tejinder @ Lucky remained in the factory in his 

absence during the period of three years as he used to remain busy in 

his factory at Peeragarhi.  He has deposed that his son Tejinder has been 

falsely   implicated   by  the complainant. According to the witness, the 

accused Vicky Singh was not the owner of his factory and he worked at 

his factory about one and half year back and after leaving the job he 

never came to his factory ever. 
(54)             In his cross examination by Ld. Addl. PP for the State the 

witness has deposed that he was not into any partnership with anybody 

and that Vicky Singh was not in his relation and was only working in 

the factory. He has deposed that there was no documentary record to 

show that his son was also employed in the factory and has voluntarily 

added that he was only helping him there.  According to the witness, he 

was having a mobile phone bearing no. 9810749497 and he was using 

this number for about 9 to 10 years.  He has deposed that his son has a 

separate number which is  9212485006  which is now closed after this 

incident   as   he   is   in   judicial   custody.   Witness   has   denied   that   he 

normally remain at home while his son was taking care of the business 

which   fact   can   be   got   proved   from   the   call   detail   records   and   the 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 51 of 93
 location charts. The witness has further deposed that he did not inform 

the police when the father of the prosecutrix namely Sunil threatened 

him and wanted to extort money from him nor he made any complaint 

to any authority including the court.  Witness has denied the suggestion 

that   the   accused   Tejinder   Singh   being   his   son,   he   was   deliberately 

deposing falsely in order to save him from penal consequences.



FINDINGS:
(55)             I have heard the arguments advanced before me by the Ld. 

Addl.   PP   for   the   State   and   the   Ld.   Defence   Counsel.     I   have   also 

considered   the   testimonies   of   various   witnesses   examined   by   the 

prosecution   and   memorandum   of   arguments   filed   on   behalf   of   the 

accused. My findings are as under: 


Identity of the Accused:
(56)             In so far as the identity of the accused Tejinder Singh @ 

Lucky Singh and Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh is concerned, the same 

stands   and   established.     They   have   been   specifically   named   in   the 

complaint and also in the FIR.  Even otherwise they were known to the 

victim and her family prior to the incident and have been identified by 

them in the court.   I hold that the identity of both the accused stands 

established.


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 52 of 93
 Age of the prosecutrix:
(57)             The   case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   the   prosecutrix   was 

around 13 years of age at the time of the incident.   In her statement 

before the Ld. MM and even in the court the prosecutrix has herself 

given her age as 13 years  and has claimed at the time of incident she 

was  studying   in   class   5th.     Further   at   the   time   of   her   medical 

examination, she has given her age as 13 years.   I may mention that 

despite the information to  the Investigating Officer that the prosecutrix 

was studying in the school, her date of birth has not been collected by 

the IO from the school.  There being no authentic document on record 

regarding the age  of  the  prosecutrix, on the directions of the Court, 

ossification / age determination test of the prosecutrix got conducted 

and as per the report  Ex.PW15/A  duly proved by Dr. Shipra Rampal 

(PW15),   Dr.   Abhilasha,   Dr.  Niyati   Srivastava  (PW17)   and  Dr.   Javed 

Salam (PW18), the estimated age of the prosecutrix as on 13.7.2012 was 

found to be between 17 to 18 years thereby establishing that at the time 

of the incident i.e. January 2012 and before that, the prosecutrix was a 

minor below 18 years of age (i.e. 16 - 17 years of age.)



Medical Evidence:
(58)             Dr. Neha Kumari (PW11) and Dr. S. N. Sidhardth (PW12) 

have   duly   proved   the   medical   record   of   the   prosecutrix   vide 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy            Page No. 53 of 93
 Ex.PW11/A  and  Ex.PW11/B  showing that at the time of examination 

on   28.1.2012   they   found   that   the   prosecutrix   'P'   was   pregnant   by   8 

months.   Both the doctors have proved that when the prosecutrix was 

brought to the hospital, she was showing visible signs of a pregnant 

women her abdomen being distending about 32 weeks and it was clearly 

visible.   Both the doctors have proved that the fetal heart sound was 

present and found regular.  
(59)             Dr. S. N. Sidharth (PW12) has also proved the MLC of the 

accused Vikram Singh and Tejinder Singh.  They have proved that there 

was nothing to suggest that both the patients (accused Vikram Singh 

and Tejinder Singh) were not capable of performing sexual intercourse.



FSL / Forensic Evidence:
(60)             After   the   birth   of   the   child,   the   DNA   Fingerprinting 

examination was got conducted and PW13 A. K. Shrivastava has duly 

proved the report in this regard vide Ex.PW13/A.  He has proved that 

STR Analysis was used for the sample and the data was analyzed by 

using   GeneMapper   ID­X   Software.   He   has   further   proved   his 

conclusion that one set alleles from the source of Ex.9 (blood sample 

Vikram Singh) were accounted in the alleles from the source of Ex.1 

(i.e. blood on gauze piece of new born baby of prosecutrix 'P').  He has 

further proved that alleles from the source of Ex.3 (i.e. blood sample of 

accused Tejinder Singh) and the alleles from the source of Ex.5 (i.e. 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 54 of 93
 blood sample of Deepak) are not counted in the alleles from the source 

of the Ex.1 (i.e. blood on gauze piece of new born baby of prosecutrix 

'P').     The   witness   has   conclusively   proved   that   the   accused  Vikram 

Singh @ Vicky Singh is the biological father of the new borne baby 

of the prosecutrix 'P'.

Prosecutrix 'P' is a child according to the Protection of Children from  
Sexual   Offences   Act,   2012   and   her   consent   if   any   becomes  
immaterial: 
(61)             Law is changing notions and never static.  It has to change 

with   the   changing   norms.     Recently   law   relating   to   Protection   of 

Children   from   Sexual   Offences   has   been   passed   by   the   Indian 

Parliament (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences, 2012 Act also 

known   as  POCSO)   which has  come  into effect   on 14.11.2012 which 

seeks   to   protect  children   from   offences   of   sexual   assault,   sexual 

harassment and pornography.  The Protection of Children from Sexual 

Offences, 2012 Act prescribes standards to be followed by the State and 

parties   in   ensuring   the   best   interest   of   the   children   and   to   prevent 

inducement or coercion of children in any unlawful sexual activity or 

any unlawful sexual practices etc.   Section 2 (d)  of the Protection of 

Children from Sexual Offences, 2012 Act defines 'Child' as any person 

below   the   age   of   18   years.     It   defines   all   acts   of   sexual   offences 

including   Aggravated   Penetrative   Sexual   Assault   as   already 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy             Page No. 55 of 93
 contemplated under Section 375 Indian Penal Code as an offence.  This 

is   a   Special   Act   which   seeks   to   address   the   issues   regarding   sexual 

exploitation and sexual abuse of a child i.e. a person below 18 years. 

Legally   a   child   is   not   capable   of   giving   the   consent   and   hence   the 

Question of Consent does not arise.  
(62)              The issue regarding the application of a Legislation to the 

events   which   happened   before   the   commencement   of   the   Act,   was 

discussed in the case of Collier Vs. Austin Health & Ors. [2011] VSC  

344  (27 July 2011) and the Supreme Court of Victoria under similar 

circumstances had held that though the Penal provisions of this later 

beneficial legislation cannot be applied retrospectively yet the intent of 

the Special Legislation and its Charter has to be interpreted liberally 

and in compatibility with the human rights and the rights of the citizens 

so sought to be protected by the Beneficial Legislation.  It was held that 

the protective human rights legislation were beneficial and remedial and 

hence the other existing general legislation can be read in the light of 

the purpose of the Special Legislation.  In a case where special rights of 

a   particular   group   are   concerned   than   the   protective   and   remedial 

legislation cannot be construed narrowly.   In our present case though 

this Beneficial Legislation (POCSO) will not operate in cases where the 

facts and events occurred prior to the commencement of the Act but at 

the same time even in the absence of such a legislation the statutory 

provisions   already   in   existence   were   required   to   be   interpreted   in   a 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy            Page No. 56 of 93
 manner compatible to the Human Rights/ Child Rights.  As on date the 

POCSO has come into force and hence it becomes the obligation of this 

Court to interpret the provisions of the General Law (Section 375 Indian 

Penal Code) in the light of the Charter of the Protective Child Rights 

Legislation.  
(63)             This   Special   Act   (POCSO)   is   a   beneficial     piece   of 

Legislation   and   would   prevail   over  any  other   General  Legislation  in 

case of events/ incidents which have taken place after the coming into 

force of this legislation.   It   is   solely   on   account   of   this   Special   Act 

(POCSO) that the provisions of Section 375 Indian Penal Code clause  

Sixthly providing that a man is said to commit 'rape' who has sexual  

intercourse with a woman, with or without her consent, when she is  

under sixteen years of age,  gets diluted.   While passing this Special 

Legislation   it   was   necessary   for   the   Legislators   to   taken   care   of   all 

conflicting situations (like age of consent etc.) which unfortunately has 

not been done and a void has been created and it has been left to the 

Courts   to   fill   up   the   same.     We  cannot  have  two  sets  of   legislation 

governing   the   same   situation/   event   and   hence   under   the   given 

circumstances the provisions of Section 375 Indian Penal Code clause 

Sixthly  is now required to be read harmoniously in the light of this 

recent enactment (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences, 2012 

Act).  In this regard, my view finds due support from the provisions of 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy             Page No. 57 of 93
 Section 42  of POCSO which provides that  where an act or omission  

constitutes an offence punishable under this Act and also under any  

other law for the time being in force, then, notwithstanding anything  

contained in any law for the time being in force, the offender found  

guilty of such offence shall be liable to punishment only under such law  

or this Act as provides for punishment which is greater in degree.  This 

indicates that the POCSO in fact supplements the existing general law 

in which the pending cases are being already tried.  Hence taking a cue 

from the Legislative intent as provided in the Charter of the Special Act 

(POCSO)   which   is   to   protect   all   persons   below   18   years   as 

contemplated in POSCO, I hold that the prosecutrix 'P' is a child being a 

person below 18 years and her consent if any becomes immaterial (as 

the child is not capable of giving any consent).  

Allegations against the accused Tejinder Singh @ Lucky and Vikram  
Singh @ Vicky:
(64)       The   case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   the   father   of   the 

prosecutrix is Chowkidar in the factory at Bawana and her mother is a 

house wife and they are also running a tea stall outside the factory of 

which the accused Tejinder Singh and  Vikram Singh are the owner.  It 

is further case of the prosecution that the prosecutrix used to sit in the 

tea stall in the absence of her parents and brother as her mother often 

remained unwell as she was a patient of Asthma and her father used to 

take  her  to  the  hospital.    It  is alleged that  both the accused are the 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy       Page No. 58 of 93
 owners of the factory where her father was working as Chowkidar.  The 

case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   on   the   date   of   incident   the   accused 

Tejinder Singh and Vikram Singh had asked the prosecutrix to bring tea 

for them and when she was returning back after giving tea, the accused 

Tejinder Singh @ Lucky caught hold of her while the accused Vikram 

Singh @ Vicky shut the door of the office and both of them thereafter 

forcibly removed her clothes and committed rape upon her.  It is alleged 

that after the said day both the accused threatened the prosecutrix and 

also repeated this act with her on many occasions taking advantage of 

the absence of her parents who used to frequently visit the hospital. The 

prosecutrix has also alleged that on one occasion when she was drying 

her clothes on the roof, another boy namely Deepak who was working 

in the adjoining factory owned by one Munna, jumped over the roof and 

came to her and caught hold of her and committed rape upon her and 

whenever   her   parents   used   to   be   away,   Deepak   used   to   come   and 

commit   rape   upon   her.     The   prosecutrix   has   disclosed   that   on   one 

occasion she fell ill and when she informed her parents they took her to 

the doctor and it was then that the doctor informed that she was eight 

months pregnant, and she narrated the entire incident to her parents. 

The   relevant   portion   of   the   testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   'P'   is 

reproduced as under: 

                   I am the third child of my parents. My sister who  
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy             Page No. 59 of 93
                    is now 10 months old is the youngest. My father is  
                   doing Chowkidari in the factories at Bawana. My  
                   mother is a housewife. At the time of the incident,  
                   I   was   studying   in   Class   5th  in   Ganesh   Public  
                   School which is also in the same area. We were  
                   running tea stall where I used to sit alongwith my  
                   parents   and   brothers.  My   mother   is   suffering  
                   from   breathing   problems   and   often   remains  
                   unwell and my father takes her to the hospital  
                   frequently and in the absence, I run tea stall. 
                           One day when my parents were away, I was  
                   sitting at the tea stall, Lucky and Vicky who are  
                   the owner of one of the factory in the area where  
                   my father was a Chowkidar asked me to get tea in  
                   their office, I prepared tea and took the same to  
                   their   office.   When   I   was   returning   after   giving  
                   tea,   accused  Lucky   (present   in   the   court   and  
                   correctly   identified)   caught   hold   of   me   and  
                   accused   Vicky   (present   in   the   court   and  
                   correctly  identified) closed/shut the door of the  
                   office, while Vicky forcibly removed my clothes.  
                   First   Lucky  forcibly committed rape on me and  
                   thereafter   it   was   Vicky   who   committed   rape   on  
                   me. I raised alarm and cried (CHILAI ROI) but  
                   they   did   not   leave   me.   My   voice   could   not   be  
                   heard outside because of the noise of the machine  
                   which was operating in the factory. 
                   On court question ­ What is the work done in the  
                   factory?
                   Ans. Bottles are manufactured (bottle banti hain).
                           Then   they   asked   me   to   wear   my   clothes.  
                   Since   I   was   unwilling   to   go   out   after   the  
                   incident, they forcibly first put my clothes on me  

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy               Page No. 60 of 93
                    and then asked me to leave and also threatened  
                   me   again   and   again   that   if   I   told   about   this  
                   incident to anybody, they would kill me and my  
                   family   members   and   throw   them   in   the  Nehar 
                   (AGAR TUMNE KISI KO BI BATAYA TO HUM  
                   TUJHE   OR   TERE   PARIVAR   KO   MAR   KAR  
                   NEHAR MEIN FEK DENGE). 
                   Court   question  -   Why   did   they   threatened   you  
                   again and again?
                   Ans.  They used to threaten me again and again  
                   when   they   repeated   this   act   with   me   time   and  
                   again.
                   Court question - What act?
                   Ans.  They committed rape with me whenever my  
                   parents used to go out or to the hospital.
                          One day, when I was drying my clothes on  
                   my Chhat/roof, Deepak Kumar who is working in  
                   factory no.C­104 i.e. adjoining factory owned by  
                   one Munna, he jumped over the roof and came  
                   over   my   roof   where   I   was   drying   the   clothes,  
                   caught   hold   of   me.   He   thereafter   removed   my  
                   clothes   and   committed   rape   on   me.   I   screamed  
                   and cried but he did not leave me. In a similar  
                   manner, whenever my parents used to away, he  
                   i.e. Deepak used to frequently come to my house  
                   and committed rape on me but out of fear, I did  
                   not tell anybody because he had threatened me.
                          One day, I fell ill and my parents took me to  
                   the Doctor who informed my parents that I had  
                   become pregnant by seven to eight months and it  
                   was then that I informed them about what Lucky,  
                   Vicky and Deepak have done with me. My parents  
                   brought   me   to   the   Police   Station   where   my  

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy               Page No. 61 of 93
                    statement was recorded by the IO which statement  
                   is Ex.PW­10/A bearing my signatures at point A.  
                   Thereafter on my identification and pointing out,  
                   accused were apprehended. The arrest memo of  
                   Deepak is Ex.PW­10/B bearing my signatures at  
                   point  A.   The   arrest   memo   of   Lucky   Singh   is  
                   Ex.PW­10/C  bearing   my   signatures   at   point  A.  
                   The arrest memo of Vicky Singh is  Ex.PW­10/D 
                   bearing my signatures at point A.
                          On   the  next  day,  I  was  also  taken  to  the  
                   hospital where my medical examination was got  
                   conducted after which I was brought to the court  
                   where   my   statement   was   recorded   by   Ld.   MM  
                   which   statement   is  Ex.PW­10/E  bearing   my  
                   signatures at various point Mark A.
                          On 28.01.12, police recorded my statement  
                   vide  Ex.PW10/F  bearing my signatures at point  
                   A.   Disclosure   statement   of   accused   Tejinder  
                   Singh   @   Lucky   was   recorded   by   police   vide  
                   Ex.PW­10/G  which bears my signatures at point  
                   A. Disclosure statement of accused Vikram Singh  
                   @   Vicky   was   recorded   by   the   police   vide  
                   Ex.PW10/H  which bears my signatures at point  
                   A. Police prepared the pointing out memos at the  
                   instance   of   the   accused   Lucky   vide  Ex.PW10/I  
                   which   bears my signatures  at  point  A.  Accused  
                   Vicky   pointed   out   place   of   incident  Ex.PW10/J 
                   which bears my signatures at point A."

(65)             The prosecutrix has been exhaustively cross examined on 

the aspect of her age.  In her testimony she has claimed that she was 13 


St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 62 of 93
 years of age but in her cross examination she has stated that when she 

came Delhi she was studying in class 4th and in Delhi she was admitted 

in Class 5th.  Further, she has admitted that prior to her parent's coming 

to Bawana, they were residing at Ghitroni for many years and also in 

Navada where she and her second brother were studying.  She has also 

admitted that for large number of years she was not able to clear her 

class 5th.
(66)             I have considered the cross examination of the prosecutrix 

and admittedly there being no authentic proof regarding her age, the 

ossification   /   age   determination   report   which   shows   the   age   of   the 

prosecutrix in July 2012 was between 17 to 18 years, is admissible  and 

there is no reason to doubt the same.  
(67)             The prosecutrix has also been exhaustively cross examined 

with   regard   to   the   incident   having   taken   place   and   she   has   denied 

having knowledge that 6 to 7 persons used to work in the factory at the 

time  of   incident.   She  has also  explained that  the incident  had taken 

place in a room which was around 10 to 12 feet. This court has observed 

that the photographs of the said room have been placed on record and 

the   room   appears   to   be   of   the   said   measurement.     She   has   further 

admitted that there is a table and two chairs lying in the said room and 

no sitting arrangement. She has further admitted on the date of incident 

her younger brother was with her at tea stall and has explained that he 

had gone out to play.  She has also admitted that she never disclosed to 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 63 of 93
 her brother or anybody else as to what had happened with her. She is 

unable to tell the number of occasions on which she had been raped by 

the   accused   and   has   explained   that   they   had   repeatedly   this   act   on 

number of occasions.  
(68)             Further, this court during her cross examination noticed that 

she has started saying that there were actually five persons who were 

involved in the incident and has on a specific court question put to her if 

anybody else had sexually exploited her, the prosecutrix has explained 

that five persons including Rajesh and Girish who were the Chowkidar 

of   the   factory   have   also   made   physical   relations   with   her.     She   has 

further explained that Rajesh and Girish were residing on the top floor 

of the same factory while they (she and her family) on the ground floor 

and they used to come to the ground floor and made physical relations 

with her on many occasions.  She has denied that she was about to get 

married Deepak.  She has admitted that she did not disclose this fact to 

the police or the Ld. Magistrate.  She has denied the suggestion that it 

was Deepak who made physical relations with her and has also states 

that she was unaware of the person who had fathered the child because 

there were many people who had sexually exploited her over the period 

of time.
(69)             Sunil Kumar (PW20) is the father of the prosecutrix and 

Ravinder   Kumar   Robin   (PW21)   is   her   uncle   (i.e.   brother   of   Sunil 

Kumar).  Sunil Kumar has proved that he is doing work of Chowkidar 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy            Page No. 64 of 93
 and was residing on the ground floor in same factory where the incident 

had allegedly taken place on the ground floor along with his wife and 

children.  He has also proved that he used to sell tea on the ground floor 

of   C­105   and   whenever   he   used   to   be   away,   his   children   including 

daughter 'P' used to sit on the tea stall.  Sunil Kumar has corroborated 

the testimonies of the prosecutrix to the extent that since his wife was 

suffering from Asthma, he used to take her to the hospital and in his 

absence his daughter 'P' used to sit on the tea stall and used to supply 

tea in the factory.  He has identified both the accused Vikram Singh and 

Tejinder Singh in the court as the owners of the factory C­106 and has 

also stated that he is aware that Deepak used to work in the factory 

C­104.   He has further corroborated the testimony of the prosecutrix 

that it was he who had taken her to the doctor and came to know that 

she was pregnant on which he shocked as is daughter ('P') was hardly 13 

years,   and   it   was   thereafter   that   he   consulted   his   brother   Ravindra 

Kumar Robin (PW21) after which they made inquiries from her and it 

was only after their repeated asking that she disclosed to them as what 

was happening with her in their absence and also disclosed that she was 

threatened by these persons not to disclose anything to anybody or else 

the would kill her.   He has also proved that on coming to know about 

the incident, he along with his brother Ravinder Kumar Robin went to 

the police station and made a complaint.
(70)             Ravinder Kumar Robin (PW21) is the younger brother of 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 65 of 93
 Sunil Kumar (PW20) who has corroborated his testimony in toto to the 

extent that his brother (Sunil Kumar) had called him two - three days 

prior to 27.1.2012 and it was then that he disclosed him about pregnancy 

of the prosecutrix on which he and his brother Sunil Kumar repeatedly 

questioned the prosecutrix who was looking scared and was not telling 

anything to them and that coaxed her, then she ultimately disclosed that 

she   had   been   raped   over   the   period   of   time   by   many   persons   who 

include the accused Tejinder Singh, Vikram Singh and Deepak Kumar 

Shah, on which they went to the Police Station and got the complaint 

registered.
(71)             Both Sunil Kumar and Ravinder Kumar Robin have been 

exhaustively cross examined and they have denied that they have falsely 

implicated the owner of the factory or that they have deliberately given 

the lower age of the prosecutrix only to extort money from the accused 

persons.  
(72)              The Ld. Defence Counsel appearing on behalf of accused 

Tejinder Singh @ Lucky Singh has raised five fold contentions, firstly 

regarding the prosecutrix 'P' being a consenting party.   He has argued 

that   no   wrong   has   been   done   against   the   will   of   the   prosecutrix. 

Secondly  he has raised the issue of promiscuity of the prosecutrix 'P' 

stating that the entire testimony of the prosecutrix reveal that she was 

into a physical relationship with large number of persons which also 

include Rajesh, Girish (whom she at one stage referred to as Ganesh) 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy         Page No. 66 of 93
 and   Deepak   and   hence   under   the   given   background,   her   testimony 

cannot be believed.   Thirdly  he has pointed out that testimony of the 

prosecutrix 'P' suffers from material contradictions and improvements 

in as much as despite sufficient opportunities she at the first instance 

did not name the Chowkidar Girish and Rajesh and it is for the first 

time in the Court that she named them.  Fourthly he has argued that the 

aspect regarding the pregnancy of the mother has also been deliberately 

withheld   from   the   Court.    Lastly  he   has   stated   that   despite   having 

known the names of the accused she did not name the accused but only 

gave their nick names to the Investigating Officer.   In support of his 

contentions   the   Ld.   Defence   Counsel   has   placed   his   reliance   on   the 

following authorities:
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy         Page No. 67 of 93
               6. Krishan Kumar Malik Vs. State of Haryana, reported 

                   in 2011 (III) RCR Crl. 589.

(73)             Ld. Addl. PP for the State has on the other hand submitted 

that the question of consent of the prosecutrix does not arise in view of 

the provisions of Section 114­A of the Indian Evidence Act.   He has 

also argued that keeping in view the young age and vulnerable position 

of the prosecutrix who was only the daughter of the poor employee of 

the accused, she was not in a position to oppose the accused who were 

in a dominating position qua the prosecutrix.  He has submitted that the 

above   authorities   so   being   relied   upon   by   the   Ld.   Defence   Counsel 

would not apply to the facts of the present case. 
(74)             I have considered the above submissions made by the Ld. 

Defence   Counsel.   Before   coming   to   the   merits   of   the   case,   I   may 

observe that conviction can be based upon the sole testimony of the 

prosecutrix if found credible and truthful. In this regard  the Hon'ble 

Supreme Court has in the case of  State of Rajasthan Vs. Biram Lal  

reported in 2005 AIR (SC) 2327 held that:

(75)             In   the   year   2006   the   Hon'ble   Apex   Court   in   the   case   of 

State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. Asha Ram  reported in  AIR 2006 SC  

381 had observed that:
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy                Page No. 69 of 93
 (76)             It was further observed by the Hon'ble Court that:

(77)             Further,   in   the   case   of  Vishnu   Vs.   State   of   Maharastra 

reported in  2006 AIR (SC) 508  it was observed by the Hon'ble Apex 

Court that:
(78)             Also in the case of  Bharwada Boginbhai Hirji Bhai Vs.  

State of Gujarat reported in 1983 (CRI) GJX 0252 SC: AIR 1983 SC  

7453 (1)  it was observed by the  Hon'ble Supreme Court  that  in the  

Indian setting, refusal to act on the testimony of a victim of sexual  

assault in the absence of corroboration as a rule, is adding insult to  

injury.   Why   should   the   evidence   of   the   girl   or   the   woman   who  

complaints   of   rape   or   sexual   molestation   be   viewed   with   doubt,  

disbelief   or   suspicion?   To   do   so   is   to   justify   charge   of   male  

chauvinism in a male dominated society.  
(79)             Applying the above settled principles of law to the facts of 

present case, coming first to the aspect of consent of the prosecutrix 'P', 

I may observe that keeping in view the fact that the accused Tejinder 

Singh @ Lucky Singh was the owner of factory No. C­105, Bawana 

Industrial Area and the prosecutrix and her family was residing in the 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy            Page No. 71 of 93
 same factory on the ground floor, the minor prosecutrix belonging to 

extremely poor family, was not in a position to resist the accused.  The 

facts   of   the   case   speaks   themselves.   The   prosecutrix   belongs   to   a 

extremely poor strata of the society.  Her father is a Chowkidar in the 

same  factory   of  which   the accused Tejinder Singh is the owner and 

Vikram Singh is his employee for last many years.  It is admitted that in 

order  to   make   his   ends   meet, the  father  of  the prosecutrix was  also 

running a tea­stall at C­105 where the prosecutrix used to help him. 

The dominant position of the accused stand established and the consent 

under these circumstances if any cannot be free.  Further in view of my 

detail discussion in view of the provisions of the Protection of Children 

from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 the prosecutrix 'P' being a child (person 

less than 18 years of age) her consent if any becomes immaterial.  Even 

otherwise,  the provisions of  Section 114­A  of  Indian Evidence Act 

provide that  in a prosecution for rape under sub section 2 of Section  

376 of the Indian Penal Code where sexual intercourse by the accused  

is proved and the question is whether it was without the consent of the  

woman   alleged   to   have   been   raped   and  she   states   in   her   evidence  

before the court that she did not consent, the court shall presume that  

she  did not consent.    In the present  case the prosecutrix 'P' is very 

unfailing and consistent on the aspect of the first incident which took 

place.  She has specifically alleged that when she had taken the tea to 

the room both the accused Tejinder Singh @ Lucky Singh and Vikram 
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy        Page No. 72 of 93
 Singh   @   Vicky   Singh   were   present   and   it   was   both   of   them   who 

committed rape on her one by one after shutting the door.   She has 

explained that she did raise an alarm but her voices could not be heard 

outside on account of the noise of the machines from the ground floor. 

It already stands established that the place of the incident is the factory 

owner by the father of accused Tejinder Singh @ Lucky Singh where 

glass  bottles were  being  manufactured.   As already discussed herein 

above, there is no reason to disbelieve the prosecutrix 'P'.   Hence, in 

view of the aforesaid, the argument of the Ld. Defence Counsel that the 

prosecutrix was a consenting party or had consented to the act, stands 

demolished.  
(80)             Secondly  coming   to   the   argument   of   the   Ld.   Defence 

Counsel that the prosecutrix was a promiscuous women I may note that 

promiscuity is a practice of casual sex with multiple sex partners.  This 

term is  viewed in the context of a mainstream social ideal for  sexual 

activity  to take place within exclusive committed relationships.  There 

cannot be a double standard as to how men and women are to be judged 

for promiscuity.  A man who despite his marital relationship is ready to 

have   a   free   run   to   have   sex   with   a   female   child/   minor   at   any 

opportunity,   has   no   business   to   be   raising   fingers   on   this   sexually 

exploited minor/ child. Both the accused Tejinder Singh @ Lucky Singh 

and Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh are married with a family and the 

DNA  Fingerprinting   Report  proves that  they were having a free run 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 73 of 93
 with the child/ prosecutrix.   Under the given circumstances their own 

character being under a cloud, they cannot be permitted to raise issues 

regarding   promiscuity   of   another   whom   they   have   shamelessly 

exploited over a period of time.
(81)             Thirdly  coming now to the aspect of contradictions in the 

testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   'P'   as   pointed   out   by   the   Ld.   Defence 

Counsel, I may observe that the same do not affect the merits of the 

case   in   so   far  as   the   accused  Tejinder  Singh  and  Vikram  Singh  are 

concerned.   The improvements are only with regard to the  naming  of 

Girish and Rajesh  at the first instance.   The Investigating Officer has 

already   submitted   that   they   had   initiated   investigations  qua   these 

persons Girish and Rajesh but since the complete names and parentage 

of the said persons not  known, hence they could not be traced out.   I 

may note that in so far as the accused Tejinder Singh and Vikram Singh 

are concerned, the prosecutrix 'P' is most consistent rather persistent in 

her statement which she gave to the Investigating Officer and thereafter 

to the Ld. MM under Section 164 Cr.P.C. and also in her deposition 

before this Court.   Merely because she has now added the names of 

some other persons (whose roles are under investigation by the police) 

does not in any manner dilute the allegations and mitigate the offence 

committed by the accused upon the prosecutrix.
(82)             Fourthly  in so far as the aspect of the pregnancy of the 

mother of the prosecutrix is concerned, I may observe that there has 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 74 of 93
 been no concealment in this regard and the prosecutrix has specifically 

in her testimony mentioned that her mother was hospitalized on account 

of   her   pregnancy.     This   aspect   does   not   in   any   manner   assist   the 

accused.  Rather on the contrary it goes to show that the parents of the 

prosecutrix were frequently away to hospital on account of the medical 

condition of her mother,  hence lending credibility to the statement of 

the prosecutrix that the accused used to sexually exploit her by taking 

advantage of her parents' absence. Whether such absence of her parents 

was on account of Asthma or pregnancy  of her mother  is immaterial 

once  the prosecutrix 'P' has  specifically  explained the incident  which 

had taken place in the absence of her parents.  
(83)             Lastly  in so far as prosecutrix  not  having given the  actual 

names of the accused  despite being aware of the same is concerned, I 

may observe that the prosecutrix has not only given nick names of the 

accused but also given their description and informed that they were the 

owners of the premises where she and her father was working there as 

Chowkidar   confirms   the   identity   of   the   accused.     Rather,  the   DNA 

Fingerprinting Report conclusively connects the accused Vikram Singh 

@ Vicky Singh with the offence.  
(84)             It  is  writ   large that  the oral  testimony of the prosecutrix 

finds due corroboration from the forensic evidence which has come on 

record  showing  that  one  of  the accused i.e. Vikram  Singh @ Vicky 

Singh   is   the   person   who   had   fathered   her   child  (which   child   is  

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 75 of 93
 presently with the orphanage).  In so far as the age of the prosecutrix is 

concerned,   the   exact   age   of   the   prosecutrix   is   not   known,   the 

Investigating   Officer   not   having   bothered   to   collect   the   school 

certificate of the prosecutrix despite the fact that he was aware of the 

school where the prosecutrix had last attended.  The prosecutrix and her 

family have given her age as 13 years which is disputed by the accused. 

The   ossification   report  Ex.PW15/A  establishes   that   she   was   aged 

around 17­18 years at the time of her examination on 13.7.2012 thereby 

conclusively establishing that she was a minor around 16­17 years at the 

time of the incident.  
(85)            The DNA Fingerprinting Report affirms that the child born 

to the prosecutrix 'P' belongs to the accused Vikram Singh @ Vicky 

Singh   and   it   is   this   which   lends   credibility   to   the   testimony   of   the 

prosecutrix and altogether demolishes the defence led by the accused in 

the form of testimony of Darshan Singh (DW1 the father of the accused 

Tejinder Singh).  The accused have desperately tried to take the plea of 

alibi by raising a defence that the accused Vikram Singh was only a 

worker in the factory who had left about one and a half years ago and 

was not visiting the factory and that Tejinder Singh seldom came to the 

factory alone or remained there alone.  
(86)            Both   the   accused   in   their   statements   under   Section   313 

Cr.P.C. have totally denied the incident or of having made any relations 

with   the   prosecutrix   though   it   is   not   disputed   by   them   that   the 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy              Page No. 76 of 93
 prosecutrix and her family are residing in a room at the ground floor 

and there is a manufacturing of glass bottles going on in the factory. 

The case of the accused is that the prosecutrix 'P' was having a steady 

relationship with another worker of of the factory at C­105 and she had 

deliberately tried to involve them only for extorting money from them. 

The DNA Fingerprinting Report, however, conclusively establishes that 

the  child   of   the   prosecutrix  'P'  was  fathered by the  accused  Vikram 

Singh thereby nailing  the lie of the accused and establishes that  the 

testimony of the prosecutrix 'P' is credible and truthful. 

(87)            The Ld. Defence Counsel for the accused Vikram Singh @ 

Vicky Singh has vehemently argued that the accused persons have been 

falsely implicated with malafide intention and to extort money.  He has 

further   pointed   out   that   the   evidence   on   record   suggests   that   the 

prosecutrix never raised any alarm nor disclosed the alleged incident to 

anybody   including   her   teachers   and   other   student   in   the   school 

indicating   her   consent.  He   has   pointed   out   that  the   prosecutrix   was 

studying in school but there is nothing on record to suggest that she was 

regularly going to the school and interacting with the students and the 

teachers.  Rather on the other hand the prosecutrix herself has explained 

that she had not cleared class five for the last number of years.   The 

prosecutrix has explained that she had no friend and was not interacting 

with anybody and hence did not disclose the incident to anyone.  Even 

otherwise this Court cannot loose sight of the fact that the prosecutrix is 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy        Page No. 77 of 93
 a young girl of immature understanding belonging to a poor section of 

society   who   had   been   sexually   exploited   by   a   number   of   persons 

including those  who were in a dominant position to control her will 

being the owner of the factory where she and her family are staying and 

where her father is employed as a Chowkidar.  It is only natural that she 

would have been so overcome with fear or under pressure that she did 

not   disclose   about   the   incident   to   anybody   including   her   mother. 

Merely   because   the   prosecutrix   did   not   speak   about   the   incident   to 

anybody including her teachers, friends or parents, does not mitigate the 

crime committed by the accused, in any manner. 
(88)             Presence of both the accused Tejinder Singh and Vikram 

Singh in the factory premises is natural and probable, Tejinder Singh 

being the owner of the said factory and Vikram Singh being employed 

there.   The presence of the prosecutrix 'P' in the said premises is also 

natural   and   probable   since   her   father   is   a   Chowkidar   in   the   factory 

and their family is admittedly staying in a room on the ground floor. 

The photographs on record indicate that the incident can in fact take 

place   in   the   room   so   alleged   by   the   prosecutrix.     In   fact   the   DNA 

Fingerprinting report conclusively having establishing that the accused 

Vikram Singh has fathered the child of prosecutrix 'P' puts to an end to 

all controversies.  The question as to whether the incident took place in 

the room as pointed out by the prosecutrix or otherwise, is a question 

which looses its relevance under the given circumstances.  The forensic 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy            Page No. 78 of 93
 report having corroborated, rather having given credence to the version 

given by the prosecutrix 'P', the onus of explaining how Vikram Singh 

had   fathered   the   child   if   he   had   not   made   any   relations   with   the 

prosecutrix then shifted on the accused which they have not been able 

to successfully discharge.  Simply by denying that the incident did not 

take place does not in any manner exculpates the accused.  There is no 

reason   to   disbelieve   the   prosecutrix   when   she   states   that   she   was 

subjected to a sexual abuses over a period of time, because the birth of 

the   child   is   an   evidence   of   this   exploitation   which   extended   over   a 

period   of   time   and   since   there   were   many   persons   involved   in   the 

exploitation of the prosecutrix a minor/ child, perhaps it was this reason 

she was unable to tell the name of the person who could have fathered 

her   child   which   fact   came   to   her   knowledge   only   after   the   DNA 

Fingerprinting Report.  
(89)             The   father   of   the   prosecutrix   has   duly   supported   the 

testimony of the prosecutrix to the extent that he frequently remains out 

in view of the long ailment of his wife who was suffering from Asthma 

for the last many years and he frequently take her to the hospital and 

perhaps it is for this reason that taking advantage of the situation when 

the young prosecutrix was left to fend her family and assist her parents, 

younger siblings to earn livings, when she was exploited by the accused 

Tejinder Singh @ Lucky and Vikram Singh @ Vicky on account of her 

vulnerable   condition.     It   is   neither   alleged   nor   the   defence   of   the 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 79 of 93
 accused that the prosecutrix was a consenting party to the act.  Rather, 

on the contrary their sole defence is that they are innocent and have 

been   falsely   implicated.     Even   otherwise,   keeping   in   view   the 

vulnerable position of the prosecutrix, the question of consent does not 

arise.  In view of the above, both the accused Tejinder Singh @ Lucky 

and  Vikram   Singh   @   Vicky  are   held   guilty   for   the   offence   under 

Section 376(2) (g)/506 Indian Penal Code.


FINAL CONCLUSION:
(90)             In   the   case   of  Sharad   Birdhichand   Sarda   Vs.   State   of  

Maharastra, AIR 1984 SC 1622, the Apex Court has laid down the tests 

which are pre­requisites before conviction should be recorded, which 

are as under:

               4. They should exclude every possible hypothesis except  
                  the one to be proved; and 
               5. There must be a chain of evidence so complete as not  
                  to   leave   any   reasonable   ground   for   the   conclusion  
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy             Page No. 80 of 93
                   consistent with the innocence of the accused and must  
                  show that in all human probability the act must have  
                  been done by the accused.


(91)             Applying the above principles of law to the facts of present 

case,   it   is   evident   that   the   investigations   conducted   including   the 

documents prepared in the present case have been substantially proved 

by the police witnesses including the investigating officer.  On the basis 

of testimonies of the various witnesses examined by the prosecution, the 

following facts stand established:


    ➢ That on the date of first incident the prosecutrix 'P' was sitting on 

         the tea stall as her father had gone to the hospital along with her 

         mother,   when   the   accused   Tejinder   Singh   and   Vikram   Singh 
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 81 of 93
          asked the prosecutrix to bring tea for them.
    ➢ That when the prosecutrix 'P' was returning back after giving tea, 

         the accused Tejinder Singh @ Lucky caught hold of her while the 

         accused Vikram Singh @ Vicky shut the door of the office after 

         which they both forcibly committed gang rape upon her.  

    ➢ That   both   the   accused   threatened   the   prosecutrix   'P'   not   to 

         disclose the incident to any body and thereafter they repeated this 

         act with her on many occasions whenever her parents used to go 

         out / had gone to the hospital.  
    ➢ That it was when  the prosecutrix fell ill and was taken to the 

         doctor   by   her   parents,   that   the   doctor   informed   them   that   the 

         prosecutrix was pregnant by seven to eight months after which 

         police was informed.  
    ➢ That at the time of her medical examination, the doctors have 

         observed   that  the   prosecutrix   was   showing   visible   signs   of 

         pregnancy and was diagnosed as pregnant by about 32 weeks.

    ➢ That the testimony of the prosecutrix 'P' is credible, reliable and 

         truthful.
    ➢ That   the   prosecutrix   'P'   was   being   sexually   exploited   by   large 

         number of persons including other employees of the factory over 

         a period of time.
    ➢ That on account of the said sexual exploitation the prosecutrix 

         became pregnant and conceived but did not come to know of the 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy            Page No. 82 of 93
          same.
    ➢ That when the prosecutrix 'P' came to know of her pregnancy she 

         could   not   tell   who   had   fathered   her   child,   there   being   large 

         number of persons involved in her exploitation.
    ➢ That DNA Fingerprinting report has conclusively proved that the 

         accused Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh is the biological father of 

         the new born baby of the prosecutrix 'P'.  
(92)             There are two stages in the criminal prosecution.  The first 

obviously   is   the   commission   of   the   crime   and   the   second   is   the 

investigation conducted regarding the same.  In case the investigation is 

faulty or has not been proved in evidence at trial, the question which 

arise is whether it would absolve the liability of the culprit who has 

committed the offence?  The answer is obviously in negative, since any 

lapse on the part of the investigation does not negate the offence.    

(93)             The prosecution has proved the identity of the accused, the 

manner in which the offence has been committed, place of commission 

of   the   offence,   the   investigation   including   the   documents   prepared, 

MLCs, etc.   There is nothing which could shatter the veracity of the 

prosecution witnesses or falsify the claim of the prosecution. All the 

prosecution witnesses have materially supported the prosecution case 

and the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses do not suffer from any 

infirmity,   inconsistency   or   contradiction   and   are   consistent   and 

corroborative.  The evidence of the prosecution witnesses is natural and 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy           Page No. 83 of 93
 trustworthy   and   corroborated   by   circumstantial   evidence   and   the 

witness of the prosecution have been able to built up a continuous link.  

(94)             In view of the above, I hold that the prosecution has been 

able to prove and substantiate the allegations beyond reasonable doubt 

against both the accused Tejinder Singh @ Lucky Singh and Vikram 

Singh @ Vicky Singh, who are hereby held guilty for the offence under 

Section 376(2) (g)/506 Indian Penal Code, and accordingly convicted 

for the same. 

                  Both the convicts Tejender Singh @ Lucky Singh and 

                  Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh in Judicial Custody with Sh. 

                  Vinod Malhotra Advocate.
ORDER ON SENTENCE:
                  Vide a detailed judgment of even date, both the accused 

Tejender Singh @ Lucky Singh and Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh have 

been held guilt of the offence under  Section 376 (2) (g)/  506 Indian 

Penal Code and accordingly convicted.
               The case of the prosecution is that the prosecutrix 'P' a young 

girl below the age of 18 years was staying along with her family in the 

factory   bearing   No.   C­105,   Sector­5,   Bawana   Industrial   Area,   Delhi 

owned   by   the   accused   Tejender   Singh   @   Lucky   Singh   where   the 

accused   Vikram   Singh   @   Vicky   Singh   was   working.     As   per   the 

allegations, the prosecutrix 'P' had been sexually abused in the factory 

premises for a long time not only by the owner Tejender Singh and his 

employee   Vikram   Singh   but   also   by   many   others   including   the 

Chowkidar Girish and Rajesh and also by one Deepak who was working 

in the adjoining factory.  It was only when the prosecutrix 'P' fell sick 

and was taken to the hospital that she was diagnosed as pregnant by 

eight   months   and   it   was   only   thereafter   that   on   persuasions   of   her 

family that she disclosed what had been happening with her, after which 
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy          Page No. 86 of 93
 the present case was registered.
               On   the   basis   of   the   testimonies   of   the   various   witnesses 

examined by the prosecution particularly the prosecutrix 'P', her father 

Sunil Kumar, her uncle/ chacha Ravindra Kumar Robin and also on the 

basis of the medical and forensic evidence on record, this Court vide its 

Judgment has held both the accused Tejender Singh @ Lucky Singh and 

Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh guilty of the offence under Section 376 

(2) (g)/ 506 Indian Penal Code for which they have been accordingly 

convicted.
               Heard   arguments   on   the   point   of   sentence.     The   convict 

Tejender Singh @ Lucky is stated to be aged about 31 years having a 

family   comprising   of   aged   parents,   two   younger   brothers,   one 

unmarried sister, wife and one boy aged 5 years.   He is a Matriculate 

and had done a Diploma in Tools Designing and is doing the work of 

dye making.  The convict Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh is stated to be 

aged about 27 years having a family comprising of aged parents and a 

four years old daughter.  He is 12th class pass and is operating the CNC 

Machine for dye making.  
               Ld.   Counsel   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   convicts   has 

vehemently argued that both the convicts are first time offenders and 

have no previous involvements.  It is prayed that a lenient view be taken 

against them.   On the other hand the Ld. Addl. Public Prosecutor has 

prayed   for   a   stern   view   against   the   convicts   keeping   in   view   the 
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy            Page No. 87 of 93
 allegations involved.  
               I have considered the rival contentions.  This case is a glaring 

example of the growing menace of sexual abuse of young girls.   The 

provisions of Section 376 (2) (g) Indian Penal Code reads that whoever  

commits gang rape, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a  

term which shall not be less than ten years but which may be for life  

and   shall   also   be   liable   to   fine:   Provided   that   the   court   may,   for  

adequate and special reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose  

a sentence of imprisonment of either description for a term of less than  

ten years. 
                  The Hon'ble Supreme Court has in the judgment of  State 

of  Andhra Pradesh Vs. Gangula Satya Murthy  reported in  JT 1996 

(10) SC 550, observed as under:

                  In the case of Shri Bodhisattwa Gautam Vs. Miss Subhra  

Chakraborty  reported in  AIR 1996 SC 922,  the Hon'ble Apex Court 

observed that:­

                 "The entire psychology of a woman and pushes her  
                 into deep emotional crisis. It is a crime against basic  
                 human   rights,   and   is   also   violative   of   the   victim's  
                 most  cherished of the Fundamental Rights, namely,  
                 the   Right   to   Life   contained   in   Article   21   of   the  
St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy               Page No. 88 of 93
                  Constitution   of   India,   1950   (in   short   the  
                 'Constitution'). The Courts are, therefore, expected to  
                 deal with cases of sexual crime against women with  
                 utmost sensitivity. Such cases need to be dealt with  
                 sternly  and   severely. A socially sensitized judge, in  
                 our opinion, is a better statutory armour in cases of  
                 crime   against   women   than   long   clauses   of   penal  
                 provisions,   containing   complex   exceptions   and  
                 provisions."

                  It has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case 

reported in AIR 2000 Supreme Court 1470 that:

                  It   was   also   observed   by   the   Hon'ble   Court   that   it  is 

necessary for the court to keep in mind that the object should be to 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy              Page No. 89 of 93
 protect the society and to deter the criminal in achieving the avowed 

object   to   law   by   imposing   appropriate   sentence.     The   Courts   are 

expected to operate the sentencing system so as to impose such sentence 

which reflects the conscience of the society and sentencing process has 

to be stern where it should be.  (Ref:  Siddarama and Ors. Vs. State of  

Karnataka reported in 2006 IV AD (Crl.) SC 78).
                  The offence of rape is barbaric in nature where the victim 

is   ravished   like   an   animal   for   the   fulfillment   of   desire   and   lust   of 

another   man.     As   observed   by   Hon'ble   Mr.   Justice   Arijit   Pasayat   a 

murderer destroys the physical frame of the victim whereas the rapist 

degrades and defiles the soul of a helpless female.  As per the official 

statistics a total number of  568  cases of rape have been reported in 

Delhi alone in the year 2011 out of which only 2% have been committed 

by strangers.  If unreported cases were to be included, the figure would 

be much high but most of the cases are not reported by the victims 

because of the various reasons such as family pressure, behaviour of the 

police, the unreasonably long and unjust process and application of law 

and resulting consequences thereof.
                  The prosecutrix 'P' was a soft and vulnerable target and 

due   to   her   social   disability,   she   was   not   in   a   position   to   offer   any 

resistance to the convicts particularly Tejender Singh @ Lucky Singh 

who was the employer of her premises and in whose premises she and 

her family used to reside.   The convicts have taken advantage of the 

St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy               Page No. 90 of 93
 financial and social helplessness of the child who was not in a position 

to express herself and was an easy and vulnerable prey.  The convicts 

went on to commit the ghastly, abominable, inhuman and barbaric act 

of rape, violating the person of the prosecutrix as a result of which she 

conceived and a child fathered by the convict Vikram Singh @ Vikcy 

was   born   to   the   prosecutrix   (parentage   confirmed   by   DNA 

examination).
                  This being the background, no mercy can be shown to the 

convicts   and   the   ghastly,   inhuman   act   of   the   convicts   cannot   be 

condoned and a substantively, stern sentence is required to be imposed 

upon   the   convicts   so   that   it   is   not   only   in   commensurate   with   the 

gravity of the crime but also serves as an example for the others who 

might also venture on the same forbidden path. 
                  Therefore, I award the following punishment to the convict 

Tejender Singh @ Lucky Singh:

                  In so far as the convict Vikram Singh @ Vicky Singh is 

concerned, I award the following punishment to him:


                  Benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C. shall be given to both the 

convicts for the period already undergone by them as per rules.



St. Vs. Tejinder Singh & Anr. FIR No. 32/2012, PS Shahbad Dairy     Page No. 92 of 93
                   The convicts have been informed that they have a right to 

prefer an appeal against this judgment.  They have been apprised that in 

case they cannot afford to engage an advocate, they can approach the 

Legal Aid Cell, functioning in Tihar Jail or write to the Secretary, Delhi 

High Court Legal Services Committee, 34­37, Lawyers Chamber Block, 

High Court of Delhi, New Delhi. 
                  One copy of the judgment and order on sentence be given 

to   the   convicts   free   of   costs   and   one   copy   of   order   on   sentence   be 

attached with their jail warrants.
                  Before ending, in view of the observations made by me in 

the judgment it has also become necessary for me to bring on record 

that it is necessary to ensure that in cases relating to sexual exploitation 

of   children   (persons   below   the   age   of   18   years)   the   provisions   of 

Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012  which came 

into force on 14.11.2012 and is a Beneficial Child Rights Legislation, 

are invoked.  All such cases of sexual assault on a victim below 18 years 

of age are required to be investigated and tried under this Special Act. 

In view of the above, I hereby direct that a copy of this order/ judgment 

be   placed   before   the   Commissioner   of   Police,   Delhi   for   necessary 

action in this regard.
                  File be consigned to Record Room.
