1.      Vide DD no.77 B, dated 03.09.2011, police was informed that 

one   foreigner   needs   help.     That   information   was   assigned   to   HC 

Sukhdev   Singh.     HC   Sukhdev   Singh   along   with   Ct.   Vidya   Sagar 

reached at the spot where the complainant informed that she has been 


State v. Elvis Menttanna                                           Page No.1/21
 sexually assaulted.  Inspector Shashi Bala was also called at the spot. 

She had been given the complaint in writing by the said complainant. 

She made endorsement on the said complaint and got registered the 

case under section 376 IPC.  The case of the complainant is that she 

was working in the Embassy of Finland, New Delhi as Visa Officer. 

She further said that in Urban Pind she met some foreigners.   They 

went to the Ashoka Hotel Night Club.   In the Night Club, she was 

dancing   and   met   the   accused   Elvis   Menttanna.     He   brought   some 

drink to her.  Thereafter, he said that he will take her to her home at 

Saravpriya Vihar but he took her to his hotel.  She said that she did 

not want to have sex with him.   He did not care.   He let her in and 

raped her twice. She said that please don't do this and cried but he 

was holding her hands and said that if she resisted, he will take out his 

knife.  Thereafter, he raped her twice.  He fell asleep and she got out 

of the room.  She asked the servant to help her and that servant helped 

her to go out of the hotel and thereafter she asked a small shopkeeper 

how to call the police.   The above said complaint was endorsed and 

the case was registered in the police station.   During the course of 

investigation, police arrested the accused from the same hotel where 

he   was   hiding   and   brought   down   by   Head   Constable.     Both,   the 

prosecutrix   and   the   accused   were   got   medically   examined.     After 

collecting the evidence, police had filed the charge sheet in the court. 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                           Page No.2/21
 The accused was brought to this court for facing trial.



2.     After being  heard,  vide order dated 10.01.2012, accused was 

charged with the offence punishable under section 376/506 IPC, to 

which accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.



3.     In order to substantiate the charge, prosecution has relied upon 

as   many   as   nine   witnesses   namely,   the   prosecutrix,   DO   HC   Om 

Prakash,   Dr.   S.   Marla,   Dr.   Sheepshank   Puny,   MHC(M)   PS   Haul 

Khans, HC Sukhbinder, MM Ms. C.R. Kujur, Inspector Shashi Bala 

and   SI  Seema  Singh.    In fact, prosecution has examined all  of its 

witnesses.

4.     Prosecution evidence consists of three sets of evidence.   The 

first   set   of   evidence   consists   the   oral   testimony   of   prosecutrix, 

examined as PW­4.   The second set of evidence consists of medical 

evidence   of   Dr.   Sheepshank   Punia  and   Dr.   S.   Marla,   examined   as 

PW­2 and PW­5 respectively.  The third set of evidence consists the 

evidence of police officials, who carried out the investigation as well 

as the persons, who helped in investigation.

5.     PW­1 HC Om Parkas has scribed the FIR and proved the same 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                             Page No.3/21
 as   PW­1/A.     PW­6   HC   Sukhbinder   Singh   was   assigned   the 

information recorded at serial no.77 for inquiry.   He along with Ct. 

Vidya Sagar reached the spot and found one foreign lady there.  She 

called the police stating that accused had raped her.  He informed the 

SHO of the police station through phone.  SHO of the police station 

had   come   at   the   spot   along   with   other   staff.     After   sometime, 

Inspector Shashi Bala had also arrived at the spot.  Inspector Shashi 

Bala  had   endorsed   the  said  complaint  and  got  registered the  case. 

Complainant had led the police party to C­28, South Ex. Part­II, and 

after seeing the place she stated that it was not that place where the 

rape was committed.  Thereafter, that foreign lady had led the police 

party to C­29, South Ex. Part­II and after seeing the place, she stated 

that   it   was   the   place   where   the   rape   was   committed   with   her   by 

accused Elvis, who had taken her previous night there.   It was the 

guest house.   Inspector Shashi Bala had taken the attendant of the 

guest house with her and reached to B­5 room at the second floor 

where the rape was allegedly committed.  Room was got opened and 

the prosecutrix had identified the bed as well as the room upon which 

the rape was committed with her.  At that time, none was found there 

in the room.   Inspector had asked him to check the presence of the 

accused in the guest house.  He had searched the accused and found 

him at the roof talking on mobile phone.  He apprehended the accused 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                                Page No.4/21
 and taken him at the second floor and after seeing the prosecutrix, the 

accused stated as to how she was there.   Thereafter, the prosecutrix 

had given the business card of the accused to Inspector Shashi Bala, 

which was taken into possession by the IO.  Site plan was prepared. 

Bed   sheet   was   taken   into   possession.     Accused   was   got   medically 

examined by him.  Accused was arrested in the police station where 

his disclosure statement was recorded by the IO in his presence.   In 

the personal search of accused, two mobile phones and Rs.73, 100/­ 

were   recovered.     Prosecutrix   was   also   sent   for   her   medical 

examination. PW­7 Inspector Shashi Bala is the Investigating Officer. 

She deposed similar to the deposition of PW­6.  She further deposed 

the fact of preparation of seizure memos as well as the arrest of the 

accused.

6.     PW­8   SI   Seema  Singh  was  assigned  the  investigation  of   the 

present case on 05.09.2011.  On 07.09.2011, she prepared the site plan 

Ex.PW8/A.   She took exhibits from the Malkhana and deposited in 

the FSL, Rohini.  She had prepared the challan and filed the same in 

the court.  Thereafter on 20.03.2012, she has filed the FSL report vide 

her application Ex.PW8/B.  She proved the FSL results as Ex.PW8/C 

and Ex.PW8/D.  PW­3 Ms. C. R. Kujur, Metropolitan Magistrate had 

recorded the statement of the prosecutrix under section 164 Cr.P.C. 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                            Page No.5/21
 and proved the same as Ex.PW3/A.

7.     PW­2 Dr. Sheepshank Pooniya has prepared the MLC of the 

accused who was brought by the police for medical examination.  He 

proved   the   MLC   as   Ex.PW2/A.     On   examination,   he   was   of   the 

opinion   that   there   was   nothing to suggest  that  the patient  was not 

capable   of   performing   sexual   intercourse   under   normal 

circumstances.     PW­5   Dr.   S.   Marla   has   examined   the   prosecutrix, 

aged about 36 years female brought by lady Ct. Nutan.  The alleged 

history disclosed by the prosecutrix was that she was raped by an 

unknown person in hotel at Delhi.   She further stated that she was 

threatened   by   that   person.    On   examination,  she  found  the   patient 

alert, conscious and there was no sign of intoxication.  She noted the 

following injuries on her body :
Right arm (medical aspect) 3 x 2 cm, contusion.
Left arm 2 x 2 cm contusion.
Left forearm 3 x 3 cm bruise on volar aspect.
1 cm abrasion on the right upper lip.
On local examination, she found hymen torn and there was no other 

injury noticed in the genitalia.  3 vaginal smears/ slides were prepared 

and sealed.  The undergarment was also sealed and sealed parcel was 

handed over to the police.  She has prepared the detailed MLC in this 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                           Page No.6/21
 regard and proved the same as Ex.PW5/A.

8.     The most vital witness is PW­4, the prosecutrix.  She deposed 

that she came to India in the beginning of August, 2011 and worked in 

the Embassy of Finland as Visa Officer.  In the night of 02.09.2011, 

she went out to a place called Urban Pind and she met some people 

over there including one French girl and also two British boys.  They 

decided to go together to Ashoka Hotel Night Club.  In Ashoka Hotel 

Night   Club,   she   was   dancing   and   on  the   dance   floor   she   met   the 

accused.  The accused offered her drinks and she spoke with him for a 

while.   She further deposed that when it was time to go home, she 

could not get a taxi and since she was told that it was dangerous to 

take a rickshaw in the night time, so the accused offered her to drive 

her home.   On the way in the taxi, the accused said that he knew a 

party going on somewhere and he asked her if she wanted to join that 

party.  She replied that she will go that party.  Then they stopped near 

a house which looked like a hotel.  The accused stated that the party 

was going on in a common area of that house, which in fact, was a 

hotel.  She along with accused went to that hotel.  She went upstairs 

to a common area of that hotel, where the party was supposed to be, 

as per the accused.  When they got there, she noticed that nobody was 

there.   The accused said that he didn't understand but the party was 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                               Page No.7/21
 supposed to be there.  Then she said that she wanted to go home and 

accused said that all right, he will take her home in the taxi.  Then the 

accused said that he wanted to get his wallet from the room of the 

hotel.   She said that she will wait outside.   The accused opened the 

door of his room and violently forced her inside the room.   At that 

moment she realised as to what was going to happen.   The accused 

locked the door of the room from inside.   At that time, she tried to 

pass him and open the door of the room but the accused held her and 

stopped her from opening the door of the room.  She screamed but the 

accused put his hand on her mouth.  Then the accused forced her to 

bed.  She was crying and saying please don't do this to me and let me 

go.  She was saying she did not want to have sex with him.  She was 

screaming again and again but the accused had put his hand on her 

mouth.   The accused held her both hands in cross position with his 

hand.  When she realised that her crying and pleading will not help, 

she   threatened   him   by   saying   that   she   works   in   the   embassy   of 

Finland and she will go to the police and that the consequences of 

raping her would be sever to him and that she will make sure that if 

he does this to her, she will destroy his life.  Thereupon, the accused 

said that he will have to take out his knife.  She further deposed that 

she was also trying to plead to his sympathy by saying that if he does 

this to her he will kill her because this will bring shame to her family 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                             Page No.8/21
 and she will have to kill herself and she was saying that it will make 

her   sad   thinking   about   her   family.     During   all   her   pleadings,   the 

accused said that he did not care.  Then the accused raped her twice 

against her wishes.  After that it seemed to her that the accused just 

suddenly   fell   asleep   so   she   gathered   her   clothes   and   things   and 

opened the door and walked out the room.  Outside the room, behind 

the door, a servant was standing and she told him to help her and that 

man   agreed   to   help   her   and   showed   her   the   way   out   of   the   hotel 

quickly.  On the way out, he saw another servant and he asked him to 

come along.  Both these servants then showed her the outgate of the 

hotel.   She further deposed that the two servants did not push me 

physically but she felt that they wanted to get rid of her.  When she 

went to the other side of the road and tried to call her friend from her 

mobile phone four times and by that time it was 7.00 am.  Then she 

noticed a little shop open and she walked to that shop and asked to 

shopkeeper how to call the police.  Then she called the police many 

times and because she did not know the place where she was present 

exactly at that time.   She gave her mobile phone to one person and 

that was how the police were informed about the place.   When the 

police came and she told them orally as to what happened.  When she 

along with police got in that hotel, she recognized the servant, who 

was standing outside the room behind the doors of the room of the 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                                 Page No.9/21
 accused after the incident.   She told the police about that servant. 

The servant however stated that he had never seen her in his life.  At 

one point, they passed a room and the servant said that the person 

living in that room was away from that room for some days and that 

he (servant) did not have the key of that room.   Police said that let 

them go back and the servant must be having key of that room.  Then 

the police asked the servant to go and get the keys of that room.  That 

servant got the key of that room and opened the door of that room and 

she recognized that it was the same room, in which the incident took 

place.   Then the policeman who was upstairs came downstairs with 

the accused and apprised her that he found this man hiding upstairs. 

She further deposed that the room was made clean i.e. the bed sheet 

was changed and the room was clean.   She recognized the accused, 

who was brought by the policeman from upstairs.  The accused also 

recognized her saying that what she was doing there.   She further 

deposed that after that, they all went to the police station Haul Khans 

and she also proved her statement as Ex.PW4/A.  

9.     In order to explain the circumstances appearing in evidence, 

accused   was   examined   under   section   313   Cr.P.C.     The   entire 

incriminating evidence was put to the accused to which he pleaded 

innocence and false implication in the present case.   He has admitted 


State v. Elvis Menttanna                                     Page No.10/21
 that he had made physical relation with the prosecutrix.   He further 

admitted that there was fight between them for the reasons that he had 

failed to give Rs.20,000/­ to the prosecutrix for one day and night. 

She agreed and stayed with him in the hotel for 2­3 hours.  They took 

shower together then she said that she wanted to go and he stated to 

her that you supposed to stay with him one night and day but she said 

that she will come in the afternoon.  He left her and she went outside 

and after about 15 minutes she came back and knocked the door, he 

thought it was a bell boy but when he opened the door prosecutrix 

was standing there.  He asked her to come inside as she was standing 

on the door. She stated that she wanted Rs.5000/­ more.  There was 

exchange of hot words between them. She continued to hold the door 

of the room and he had asked her to leave the hotel in case she wants. 

Then she started abusing his family so he pulled her hand and slapped 

her on the lip side.  He has also preferred to examine four witnesses in 

his   defence   namely,   DW­1   Sh.   Shailender   Yadav,   DW­2   Sh.   R.K. 

Singh,   Nodal   Officer   Bharti   Airtel,   DW­3   Sh.   Sunny   Semwal   and 

himself.  .  

10.    On   behalf   of   the   State,   learned   APP   has   presented   the   fact 

stating that the testimony of PW­4 is coherent and firm.   PW­4 has 

categorically   deposed   that   it   was   accused   who   had   made   physical 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                             Page No.11/21
 relation   with   her   against   her   wishes   in   the   hotel.     PW­4   further 

deposed categorically that she was screaming again and again but  the 

accused had put his hand on her mouth.  The accused hold her both 

hands in cross position with his hand.   When she realised that her 

crying and pleading will not help, she threatened him by saying that 

she work in the embassy of Finland and she will go to the police and 

that the consequences of raping her would be sever to him and that 

she will make sure that if he does this to her, he will destroy his life. 

Thereupon, the accused said that he will have to take out his knife. 

PW­4   further   deposed   that   she   was   also   trying   to   plead   to   his 

sympathy by saying that if he does this to me he will kill her because 

this will bring shame to her family and she will have to kill herself. 

Counsel for the State further argued that Ms. Poona Sharma, Senior 

Scientific   Officer   (Biology),   Forensic   Science   Laboratory   has 

examined the exhibits of this case and found blood on one bed sheet 

having brown stains, dirty cloth piece having brown stains and blood 

in gauze,   she further found human semen on micro slides having 

faint   whitish   smear   and   underwear having dirty stains.    Again the 

semen   stains   found   on   underwear   were   of   AB   group.     Doctor 

examined the prosecutrix found four injuries on her body i.e. 3x2cm 

contusion on right arm, 2x2cm contusion on left arm, bruise on volar 

aspect 3x3cm on left forearm and 1cm abrasion on the right upper lip. 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                             Page No.12/21
 Learned APP has further submitted that the prosecution has proved its 

case beyond reasonable doubt.

11.     On behalf of the accused, his counsel has stated that accused 

has   been   falsely   implicated   in   the   present   case.     It   was   in   fact   a 

consensual sex between the accused and the prosecutrix.  For this he 

has   drawn   the   attention   of   this   court   towards   the   statement   PW­4 

prosecutrix where has agreed to go with the accused in the hotel in 

the night time.  Even in the examination in chief, she has deposed that 

she agreed to in a party in the night time in the hotel with the accused 

which the accused had said that a party was going in a hotel.  He had 

also   drawn   the   attention   of   this   court   to   the   testimony   of   DW­4 

(accused himself) where the accused himself had elaborated the fact 

of finding the visiting card in the possession of the prosecutrix.  He 

has also elaborated the fact in his testimony about the CCTV camera 

installed in the corridor of his hotel on each floor.   He elaborated 

about his physical relations made with the prosecutrix made in the 

hotel.  The counsel has submitted that the physical relations have been 

made by the accused with the prosecutrix on her sweet will.  Accused 

and prosecutrix, both, are major.  If the physical has been established 

between two adults with consent, then there is no offence.   He had 

also elaborated the fact about sustaining the injury by the prosecutrix. 


State v. Elvis Menttanna                                                  Page No.13/21
 He submitted that the accused be acquitted.

12.    I have heard the argument, analysed the evidence and perused 

the record.  Accused herein has been charged with the offence 375 

IPC, which is punishable under section 376 IPC.  There are six circum­

stances enumerated in section 375 IPC when a man can be charged with 

the offence punishable under section 376 IPC. Section 375 IPC is repro­

duced hereunder :
13.    The offence of rape in its simplest term is ' the ravishment of a 

woman, without her consent, by force, fear or fraud', or as 'the carnal 

knowledge of a woman by force against her will'. 



14.    " Rape' or 'Raptus' is when a man hath carnal knowledge of a 

woman by force and against her will.   In the crime of rape,' carnal 

knowledge' means the penetration to any the slightest degree of the 

organ   alleged   to   have   been   carnally   known   by   the   male   organ   of 

generation.  It is stated that even the slightest degree of penetration is 

sufficient to prove sexual intercourse.  It s violation with violence of 

the private person of a woman­ an­outrage by all means.  By the very 

nature of  the offence it is an obnoxious act of the highest order.


15.    Now, the court would assess whether the evidence brought by 

the prosecution is sufficient to held guilty the accused for the offence 

u/s   376   IPC.  The   Court,   while   evaluating   the   facts   of   a   case,   is 

supposed to form its opinion about the credibility of the witnesses 

examined in the case.  The judge has to form his own estimate of the 

evidence   produced   before   him   and   to   articulate   an   opinion   on 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                               Page No.15/21
 credibility   of   the   witness(es).       For   the   purpose   of   assessing   the 

credibility, the Court has to consider evidence of a witness to find out 

as to how he has fared in the cross examination and what impression 

is created by his evidence, taken in context of other facts of the case. 

Law recognizes following ways in which evidence of a witness can be 

termed unreliable; (a) the witness' statement is inherently improbable 

or   contrary   to   the   course   of   nature,   (b)   his   deposition   contains 

mutually contradictory or inconsistent passage, (c )  he is found to be 

bitter enemy of the opposite party, (d) he is found not to be a man of 

veracity, (e) he is found to have been bribed or accepted any other 

corrupt inducement to give evidence, and (f) his demeanour, while 

under examination, is found abnormal and unsatisfactory.



16.    It is well settled law that corroboration of the testimony of the 

prosecutrix is not the sine qua non for conviction in a rape case.  To 

insist on corroboration except in rarest of rare cases is to equate one 

who is the victim of the lust of another with an accomplice to a crime 

and   thereby,   insult   womanhood.     Even,   the   corroboration   of   the 

testimony of the prosecutrix by medical evidence was not essential. 

One remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self respecting 

woman would come forward in a court just to make a humiliating 

statement against her honour such as is involved  in the commission 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                              Page No.16/21
 of   rape   on   her.     In   case   involving   sexual   molestation,   supposed 

considerations which have no material effect on the veracity of the 

prosecution   case   or   even   discrepancies   in   the   statement     of   the 

prosecutrix should not, unless the discrepancies are such which are of 

fatal nature, be allowed to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution 

case. 

17.      Now, look at the evidence of the prosecturix and prosecution 

witnesses at the above said standard.  Prosecution case starts with the 

information recorded at DD no. 77B on 03.09.2011, in which it was 

mentioned that one foreigner needs help.   Police reached there and 

found the prosecutrix there.  Her statement was recorded and accused 

was arrested in the present case.  Before arresting the accused, the site 

plan as well as the seizure of the articles have been prepared.  These 

all   facts   are  not   disputed  by  the  accused.    Accused   had  taken  the 

defence that he had made physical relation with the prosecutrix with 

her   consent.     Prosecutrix   herein   categorically   deposed   in   her 

statement under section 161 as well as 164 of Cr.P.C. that accused had 

committed rape against her body.  She further deposed categorically 

that accused had threatened her to kill.  She was screaming again and 

again but accused put his hand on her mouth.  Accused also held her 

both hand in cross position with his hand.  She also narrated the fact 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                           Page No.17/21
 that accused had raped her twice.  Thereafter, when the accused had 

suddenly fall asleep she had gathered her clothes and articles, opened 

the door and walked out of the room.  Outside the room behind the 

door,   a   servant   was   standing   and   she   told   him   to  help   her.     That 

servant helped her after she had stated to him that she will blame him 

for assisting in a crime.  She also deposed that she also went otherside 

of the road and tried to call her friend from her mobile phone for four 

times but her friend did not pick up the phone.  However, she noticed 

a little shop opened and asked the shopkeeper how to call the police. 

She   deposed   about   the   fact   that   her   underwear   was   taken   by   the 

doctor   at   the   time   of   her   examination.     Whole   of   the   cross 

examination of this witness has been centred around the fact about the 

time when her statement under section 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded or 

the certain facts which she had not uttered in her statement  under 

section 164 Cr.P.C.  The argument that the prosecutrix had gone at the 

hotel of the accused with him on her sweet will does not mean that 

she had allowed the accused to make physical relation.  The consent, 

if   any,   is   limited   for   joining   the   company   not   for   establishing   the 

physical relation.  The injury found on the person of the prosecutrix 

demonstrate that accused had committed rape upon the prosecutrix. 

If the sweet will is there, then the accused could not use the force. 

The story of staying with the accused of prosecutrix for consideration 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                                 Page No.18/21
 has been created just to wriggle out from this case.  



18.    The   testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   is   coherent,   firm   and 

overwhelming.  There is no reason to disbelieve the testimony of the 

prosecutrix.     Defence   has   not   succeeded   in   its   defence   that   the 

accused   had   made   physical   relation   with   the   prosecutrix   with   her 

consent.  Otherwise, from the medical evidence and forensic evidence 

as well as from the admission of the accused, prosecution has proved 

that   the   physical   relations   has   been   established   between   the 

prosecutrix   and   the   accused   and   accused   had   used   force   while 

committing the rape upon the prosecutrix.   Even, the accused had 

threatened her to kill while she resisted, cried and screamed by saying 

'please don't do this'.

19.    In   view   of   the   above   discussion,   I   am   of   the   view   that   the 

prosecution   has   succeeded   in   proving   its   case   against   the   accused 

under sections 376/506 IPC.  Accordingly, the accused is convicted. 



Announced in the open Court                      (Atul Kumar Garg)
On 19.12.2012.                          Additional Sessions Judge­04,
                                          South District, Saket Courts,
                                                       New Delhi.

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                                Page No.19/21
          IN THE COURT OF SH. ATUL KUMAR GARG 
ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, SAKET COURTS,DELHI


State Vs. Elvis Menttanna
FIR NO.296/11
P.S. Hauz Khas
U/S 3765/506 IPC

22.12.2012

ORDER ON SENTENCE 

Present :       Sh. N.S. Negi, substituted Addl. PP for the State 

                Convict is produced from J.C.
                Sh.   Vishnu   Vijay,   proxy   counsel   for   the   convict   is  

                present.
                He submits that the main counsel is not available today. 

However,   he   claims  leniency   on   behalf   of   convict   stating   that   the 

convict   is   a   young   boy   of   26   years   of   age,   having   no   criminal 

antecedent.  
       On   the   other  hand,  counsel  for the  State Sh.  N.S. Negi   had 

opposed the prayer and submitted that the convict had committed the 

offence  of  rape  with a foreigner not only once but twice and also 

threatened her.   He advocated the maximum sentence prescribed in 

the law to the convict. 

State v. Elvis Menttanna                                             Page No.20/21
         I have heard the arguments at bar and perused the record. As 

per   prosecution   case,   in   the   night   of   03.09.2011   convict   had 

established physical relation by using force upon the prosecutrix, a 

resident of Finland in a hotel.  He had also given the injury on her lips 

as well as on other body parts.
       Considering the gravity of offence, I sentenced the convict to 

undergo seven years rigorous imprisonment u/s 376 IPC.  Convict is 

further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/­. In default of payment of 

fine, he is directed to undergo six months SI.  He is further sentenced 

to undergo one year rigorous imprisonment for offence punishable u/s 

506   IPC.     Both   the   sentences   shall   run   concurrently.     Benefit   of 

section 428  Cr.P.C is given to the convict. Order accordingly, a copy 

of judgment and order on sentence is given to the convict free of cost. 

Announced in open court.
Dated on 22.12.2012 
                                             (ATUL KUMAR GARG)
                                             Addl. Sessions Judge­04
                                             Saket Courts, New Delhi. 

