1.         The accused had been sent for trial by the police for
having committed the offences punishable u/s.376/506 IPC.
2.         According to the prosecution case, the complainant
Smt. Gujrati alongwith her daughter i.e. prosecutrix namely
'H' (real name withheld in order to protect her identity) had come
to the police station on 02.8.2012 with a complaint that the
prosecutrix had been raped by Imran s/o Sh. Jahid. SI Kusum Lata,
who was posted at P.S. Sagarpur was summoned to deal with the




SC No.18/13.                                         Page 1 of 17
 complainant and her daughter. She reached P.S. Dabri and made
inquiries from the prosecutrix. She alongwith SI Sodan took the
prosecutrix to DDU Hospital and got her medically examined. She
also recorded the statement of the prosecutrix wherein the
prosecutrix stated that she is 20 years old and doing B.A. Course
from Delhi University through correspondence.       She also stated
that she knew accused Imran for the last one and a half years as
his sister Sohalia was working with her in the same company and
she had visited the house of the accused many times alongwith
Sohalia. Accused had told her that he likes her and wants to marry
her but she spurned his offer as they belong to different religions.
However, accused Imran used to call her and send her text
messages. On 02.8.2012 at about 2 p.m. accused Imran had made
a telephonic call to her asking her to meet him at his home. When
she reached his home, she found that nobody was present in the
ground floor room.    As soon as she entered the room, accused
closed the door from inside, pushed her on to a cot, gagged her
mouth with one hand, opened the string of her Salwar, took off her
Salwar and panty, took off his own underwear as well as lower and
raped her. Thereafter he threatened her that he would kill her and
her family members if she disclosed the incident to anybody and
left from there. She came home after sometime and narrated the
incident to her mother.
3.          On the aforesaid statement of the prosecutrix, FIR was
got registered by SI Kusum Lata u/s.376/511/506 IPC. She
prepared the site plan of the spot of incident at the instance of the
prosecutrix and also seized the exhibits given to her by the doctor
after medical examination of the prosecutrix. She recorded




SC No.18/13.                                            Page 2 of 17
 statement of the witnesses and also sent the exhibits to FSL for
forensic examination. She made search for the accused but did not
find her. Ultimately, accused surrendered in court on 31.8.2012
and was arrested by SI Kusum Lata. He is stated to have made a
disclosure statement admitting his guilt.     He was got medically
examined in DDU Hospital and exhibits/samples collected by the
doctor were seized. The exhibits were then sent to FSL Rohini for
DNA profiling and comparison.
4.          After the completion of the investigation, Charge
Sheet was laid before the concerned Magistrate, who then
committed the case to the court of Sessions for trial.
5.          Upon committal of the case to the court of Sessions,
charges u/s.376 IPC and u/s.506 IPC were framed against the
accused on 17.12.2012. The accused claimed not guilty to the
aforesaid charges and accordingly prosecution was called upon to
lead its evidence. The prosecution has examined 15 witnesses to
prove the charge against the accused. The accused was examined
u/s.313 Cr.PC on 22.4.2013 wherein he claimed innocence and
denied all the incriminating facts and circumstances put to him. He
further stated that the prosecutrix used to send him text
messages regularly on his mobile phone and used to pressurise
him to marry her but he declined and it is for this reason he has
been framed by the prosecutrix in this case. The accused however
chose not to lead any evidence in defence.
6.          I have heard Ld. APP, Ld. Counsel for the accused and
have perused the entire material on record.
 7.          Ld. APP submits that the prosecutrix has vividly
explained the incident of rape in her deposition before this court
and nothing contrary to the prosecution case could be elicitated in
her cross examination. She further submits that the mother of the
prosecutrix appearing as PW4 has corroborated the testimony of
prosecutrix. According to her, DNA analysis report also manifest
that it is the accused, who had raped the prosecutrix on the date
of incident. She submits that accused is liable to be convicted.
8.          On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for the accused
submitted that the accused is innocent and has been falsely
framed in this case. He submits that the printouts of test
messages sent by the prosecutrix to the accused (Mark-A colly)
demonstrate that the prosecutrix was madly in love with the
accused and wanted to marry him. He further submitted that it is
the accused, who ignored the prosecutrix and did not respond to
her love, which became a matter of annoyance for the prosecutrix
and she fabricated a false case against the accused. He submitted
that in fact, no such incident took place at all which is evident from
the MLC of the prosecutrix which reveals that her hymen was
found to be intact. According to the Ld. Counsel, if the accused
would have raped prosecutrix and there was penetration, her
hymen would have got torn. However, when confronted with the
DNA analysis report Ex.PA, he contended that the sexual
intercourse between the accused and the prosecutrix was with the
consent of the prosecutrix.
9.          In cases involving the offence of rape, the testimony of




SC No.18/13.                                             Page 4 of 17
 prosecutrix is the most vital and material piece of evidence. Her
statement if found to be worthy of credence and reliable, requires
no corroboration and court may convict the accused on her sole
testimony. A prosecutrix of sex offence cannot be put on par with
an accomplice. She is in fact a victim of crime. The Evidence Act
nowhere says that her evidence cannot be accepted unless it is
corroborated in material particulars.       She is undoubtable and
competent witness under section 118 and her evidence must
receive the same weight as is attached to an injured in cases of
physical violence.    The same degree of care and caution must
attach in the evaluation of her evidence as in the case of an
injured complainant or witness and no more.          In case involving
sexual harassment, molestation etc. the court is duty bound to
deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. Minor contradictions
or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a prosecutrix
should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable
prosecution case.     While evaluating evidence, the court must
remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self respecting
woman would come forward in a court just to make a humiliating
statement against her honour. At the same time, it is also settled
position that if for some reason the court is hesitant to place
implicit reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix, it may look
for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony short of
corroboration required in case of an accomplice. If the court of
facts finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix at its
face value, it may search for evidence, direct or circumstantial,
which would lend assurance to her testimony. (See- State of
Maharashtra vs. Chandraprakash Kewalchand Jain, AIR
1990 SC 658, State of U.P. vs. Pappu @ Yunus and anr., AIR




SC No.18/13.                                              Page 5 of 17
 2005 SC 1248, State of Punjab vs. Gurmit Singh and Ors.,
AIR 1966 SC 1393).
10.        It would also be useful to keep in mind the following
observations of the Supreme Court made in Raju vs. State of
M.P., (2008) 5 SCC 133 :
11.        In this case the prosecutrix has been examined as
PW3. She has deposed her age to be 20 years. According to her,




SC No.18/13.                                             Page 6 of 17
 she knew the accused before the date of incident as his sister
Sohalia Khan was her friend and they used to do job together in an
insurance company previously. She had seen the accused in his
house when she used to go there in the morning, from where
Sohalia accompanied her to the office. She further deposed that
the accused used to follow and tease her during her school days
also and used to pressurise her for friendship but she declined his
offer and asked him not to follow her. She further deposed that on
the date of incident i.e. 02.8.2012 she received call from the
accused on her mobile phone saying that his sister Sohalia Khan is
calling her immediately. She thought that there is some serious
matter and accordingly she reached their house in 10 - 15
minutes. She found accused and Sohalia sitting in a room on the
ground floor.   Sohalia asked her to sit and herself rose up and
went upstairs to fetch water. When Sohalia went out of the room,
accused asked her what she intended to do and she told him that
she does not want to talk to him as she has been called here by
Sohalia. Accused told her that he has called her and not Sohalia.
Thereafter the accused held her hand from behind. She told him
that she does not want to talk to him and is going home, but she
found that the door of the room was bolted from outside and thus
could not go out. The accused beat her mercilessly. She asked him
why he was beating her and the accused told her that he loves her
and would ruin her. Accused gagged her mouth so that she could
not raise alarm and thereafter committed forcible intercourse with
her. The accused then told her that he has done whatever he
wanted to do and would now defame her. When she rose up to
leave, she found that accused has already run away and the door
was open. She did not find Sohalia in the house. On return to her




SC No.18/13.                                          Page 7 of 17
 home, she narrated the incident to her mother. She alongwith her
parents reached the house of the accused where they did not find
either accused or Sohalia. When they were about to leave, they
saw the father of the accused coming inside the house. An
altercation started between her father and accused's father. She
told father of the accused that accused has raped her and the
accused's father requested her with folded hands to marry his son
i.e. accused. Her father tried to call the police but for some reason
could not contact the number.         The father of the accused
requested them not to go to the police station and to put an end to
the matter there and then, but they did not accede to his request
and she alongwith her mother went to the police station whereas
her father returned home. In the police station, her statement was
recorded by a lady police official, which she proved as Ex.PW3/A.
She was then taken to DDU Hospital where she was medically
examined. She deposed that her undergarments i.e. Bra and panty
were seized by the doctor at the time of medical examination.
Next day, she took the police officials to the house of the accused
and pointed out to them the spot of incident vide pointing out
memo Ex.PW3/B. At that time nobody was present in the house of
the accused. She further deposed that at the time of committing
intercourse with her, the accused had removed all his clothes and
also her Salwar and panty.
12.         In her cross examination, the prosecutrix deposed that
she did not take it seriously when the accused was following her
and pressurising her to marry him about two years before the
incident and therefore she did not lodge any complaint in that
regard. She further deposed that accused had sent her various




SC No.18/13.                                            Page 8 of 17
 test messages on her mobile phone on the night intervening
between 21.5.2012 and 22.5.2012 as it was her birthday on
22.5.2012. She saw these messages in the morning and ignored
them. According to her, accused used to call her on her mobile
phone. Most of the time, she did not answer his calls and
whenever she answered the call, accused used to talk about his
girlfriends.   She did not complain to the police as there was
nothing to complain for the reason that accused neither issued any
threat to her nor committed any kind of illegal act. She further
denied that she had received any call from the accused before 11
a.m. on the date of incident. She however admitted that the
accused had sent an SMS to her which she replied but she did not
recollect the contents of the SMS as well as her reply. She also
deposed that when accused started committing intercourse with
her forcibly, she was not in a position to show any resistance on
account of severe beatings given to her by the accused before
that act. She further denied all the suggestions put to her by the
Ld. Counsel for the accused; that she had been proposing to the
accused to marry her and he used to reject the proposal saying
that they belong to different communities;      that Sohalia had
complained to her parents that she has been proposing the
accused to marry her and that for this reason she was sent by her
parents to native village so that she would not remain in contact
with the accused or that she continued to contact the accused
after return from the village also; that she had been threatening
the accused to implead him in a false case if he does not marry
her; that she had sent an SMS to the accused on 02.8.2012 at 9.42
a.m. conveying the aforesaid threat of false implication in a
criminal case;   that she herself had excited the accused at the




SC No.18/13.                                         Page 9 of 17
 time of incident and despite excitement the accused could not do
the act as he was not able to penetrate and he ejaculated without
penetration. She was shown printouts of mobile phone text
messages by the Ld. Cross examining Counsel (total 18 in number)
and she admitted that she had sent these messages but added
that the timings mentioned therein have been manipulated. She
also stated that some messages were sent by Aarti, the girlfriend
of the accused, from her mobile phone.
13.           I find nothing in the aforesaid deposition of the
prosecutrix, which would persuade me to hold that she is not a
trustworthy witness. Even though it is indicated that there was
some sort of friendship between the prosecutrix and the accused
before the date of incident as they used to call each other and
exchange text messages on mobile phone yet it cannot be
countenanced that either no such incident had taken place or the
sexual act between the two had taken place with the consent of
the prosecutrix. In my opinion, the version of the incident given by
the prosecutrix in her testimony inspires confidence and nothing
contrary to the prosecution case has been elicited in her cross
examination. The arguments of the Ld. Counsel for the accused
that the prosecutrix has fabricated a false story of rape in order to
implicate the accused falsely in this case for the reason that he
had rejected her proposal for marriage, is too far fetched and
hence not acceptable. Even if it is assumed that the prosecutrix
was madly in love with the accused and wanted to marry him at
any   cost,    she   would   have   continued   the   friendship/love
relationship with the accused in the hope that the prospect of
marriage may ripen in near future and would not have slapped




SC No.18/13.                                           Page 10 of 17
 false charge of rape upon the accused. It is commonly understood
that no self respecting woman, much less an unmarried girl, would
come forward with a false allegation of rape as in our conservative
Indian society, it is almost impossible for a rape victim to find a
suitable match.   Therefore it is very difficult to believe that an
unmarried Hindu girl would put her future at stake and mar her
prospects of marriage by coming up with a false story of having
raped. Moreover while in deep love with a man, the girl can go to
any extent except to level false charges of rape against that man
whom she loves intensely.
14.        From    the   cross   examination   of   the   prosecutrix
conducted on behalf of the accused, it is evident that the accused
admits that the prosecutrix had come to his house on the date of
incident and there had been an attempt of sexual intercourse
between the two, which could not be accomplished.             This is
indicated from the suggestion given to the prosecutrix that she
had excited the accused for the sexual act and despite
excitement, the accused could not do the act and was not able to
penetrate and he ejaculated without penetration. The fact that the
accused had ejaculated during the act is also evidenced from the
DNA report (Ex.P3), as per which, the DNA isolated from the stains
found on the underwear of the prosecutrix matched substantially
with the DNA of the accused isolated from his blood sample. Once
the accused admits this fact that he and the prosecutrix had made
an attempt to engage into a sexual act which somehow could not
be accomplished as he was not be able to penetrate and his
semen stains were found on the underwear of the prosecutrix, it
was for him to demonstrate as to why and in what circumstances




SC No.18/13.                                          Page 11 of 17
 had the prosecutrix come to his home and in what manner, she
had excited the accused to perform the sexual act and what was
the reason for which he was not able to penetrate. The accused
could have done so either by eliciting answers in this regard
during the cross examination of the prosecutrix or by offering
some plausible explanation in his statement u/s.313 Cr.PC or by
leading evidence in defence. The accused has done none of the
three. The prosecutrix has not been cross examined in this regard.
The accused, in his statement u/s.313 Cr.PC, has admitted that he
had called the prosecutrix on the date of incident and that the
prosecutrix had reached his home but he denied that any sexual
encounter took place between the two. He is totally silent about
any excitement on the side of the prosecutrix and about any
unaccomplished sexual act. More importantly, he has not led any
evidence in defence to establish that the prosecutrix was a
consenting party to the sexual encounter and in fact, the sexual
act also could not be completed. Since there is no explanation
coming forth from the side of the accused and there is no evidence
on record to contradict the version of incident given by the
prosecutrix, I see no reason to disbelieve her testimony which
otherwise also appears to be convincing and trustworthy.
15.         The contentions put forward on behalf of the accused
is that there was no penetration of his penis into the vagina of the
prosecutrix and that he had ejaculated outside the vagina of the
prosecutrix is belied by the medical evidence on record. From the
observations   of   PW2,    the   doctor,   who   had    conducted
gyanecological examination of the prosecutrix, on the MLC
(Ex.PW2/A), it is manifest that there was a small abrasion of 0.5




SC No.18/13.                                          Page 12 of 17
 cm X 2 cm at posterior fourchette (posterior part of perineum).
There could not have been such abrasion on the fourchette, had
there been no penetration howsoever slight. Further the result of
the medical examination of the accused, as contained in MLC
Ex.PW10/A, shows that there was nothing to suggest that he is not
able to perform the sexual act. In view of the aforesaid medical
evidence on record and in absence of any plausible explanation
from the side of the     accused as to why he was not able to
penetrate into the vagina of the prosecutrix, as contended by him,
it is very difficult to hold that there was no penetration and that it
was only an attempt to rape.
16.         It would be also pertinent to mention here that to
constitute the offence of rape as defined u/s.375 of the Indian
Penal Code, neither the said section nor the explanation attached
thereto requires that there should necessarily be complete
penetration of penis into the private part of the prosecutrix.      In
other words, it is not at all necessary to constitute the offence of
rape that there should be complete penetration of the male organ
into female organ with emission of semen, rupture of hymen.
Even partial or slightest penetration of male organ within the labia
majora or the vulva or pudenda with or without any emission of
semen or even an attempt at penetration into the private part of
the prosecutrix would be enough for the purpose of section 375
and section 376 of the IPC. Therefore it is quite possible to commit
legally the offence of rape even without causing any injury to the
genitals or leaving behind any semenial stains. But in the present
case there is medical evidence demonstrating injury to the
perineum of the prosecutrix and ejaculation of semen by the




SC No.18/13.                                            Page 13 of 17
 accused and therefore, no doubt can be entertained that the
prosecutrix was subjected to sexual assault.
17.         Ld. Counsel for the accused has vehemently stressed
that in no circumstances can it be said that the prosecutrix was
raped by the accused as during her medical examination, her
hymen was found intact.       He submits that the hymen of the
prosecutrix could not have been intact if she had been subjected
to forcible sexual intercourse by the accused and the accused had
inserted his private part into her private part. The submissions of
the Ld. Counsel though attractive, yet are sans any merit. As
noticed herein-above, even a slightest penetration of the penis
into the vulva or labia majora or pudenda would constitute the
offence of rape and therefore the rupture of hymen is not an
essential condition or the ingredient of the offence of rape. This
issue has been considered and discussed by the Supreme Court in
Tarkeshwar Sahu vs. State of Bihar, (2006) 8 SCC 560, and
it has been held as under :
18.         Therefore, the position of law which emerges from the
aforesaid decision of the Supreme Court is that even an attempt to
penetrate the penis into the vagina by force with mere vulval
penetration without rupture of hymen is enough for convicting an
accused u/s.376 IPC. It is immaterial whether penis penetrated
fully or partially into victim's vagina and it is not at all material
whether the hymen had ruptured or not. What is material is just
vulval penetration and not vaginal penetration.         In the instant
case, there is a categorical statement of the prosecutrix that the
accused first beat her mercilessly and then gagged her mouth, so
that she could not raise alarm and thereafter committed
intercourse with her forcibly and against her wishes.               The




SC No.18/13.                                             Page 15 of 17
 statement of the prosecutrix when read alongwith the medical
evidence showing injury mark on her posterior fourchette and the
fact himself admitted by the accused that he had ejaculated
during the act makes it limpid that there was atleast vulval
penetration, even if not vaginal penetration, thus amounting to
offence of rape. It is not the defence of the accused that
ejaculation was because of resort to masturbation by his own hand
or by using the hand of the prosecutrix.
19.         The conduct of the prosecutrix after the incident also
indicates that she had been ravished by the accused. She went
home straight and told her mother that accused has raped her.
Thereafter she alongwith her parents went to the accused's house
and told the father of the accused that she has been raped by his
son.   Accused's father requested them to settle the matter
amicably and not to report it to police. There has been no cross
examination of the prosecutrix on these points and have to be
taken as true.
20.         The assessment of the overall evidence on record
leads to the only irresistible conclusion that accused has
committed rape upon the prosecutrix.       The charge u/s.376 IPC
stands proved against the accused beyond reasonable doubt.
However there is no evidence on record to support charge u/s.506
IPC. The prosecutrix has nowhere deposed that the accused had
issued any threats to her during or after the commission of
offence. Therefore charge u/s.506 IPC fails.
21.         Resultantly,   accused    is   convicted    for   having




SC No.18/13.                                           Page 16 of 17
 committed offence u/s.376 IPC. He is, however, acquitted of the
charge u/s.506 IPC.
