(1)            As   per   the   allegations   on   4.4.2012   at   2:00­2:30   PM   at 

House No. 851/54, Third Floor, Lekhu Nagar, Tri Nagar the accused 

Surya Bhan @ Uday wrongfully restrained the prosecutrix 'P' (name  

of the prosecutrix is being withheld as this is a case under Section  

376 IPC) aged about 12 years in his room and thereafter committed 

rape upon her and criminally intimidated the prosecutrix 'P'.


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                         Page No. 1
 CASE OF THE PROSECUTION/ BRIEF FACTS:
(2)            The   case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   on  5.4.2012  at   about 

12:45  PM  complainant  'P' along with her mother Bimla Devi  and 

father   Shyam   Narain   came   to   Police   Post   Shanti   Nagar   of   Police 

Station Keshav Puram and made a complaint regarding rape upon 'P' 

by one Surya Bhan.  In her complaint to the police the complainant / 

prosecutrix 'P' informed the police that on 4.4.2012 while she was 

alone at home at about 2:00­2:30 PM the accused Surya Bhan who 

was   residing   on   the   third   floor  of   the   premises,   called   her   to  his 

room.  She further informed the police that when she went inside the 

room of Surya Bhan, he committed rape upon her.  According to the 

prosecutrix   even   on   one   previous   occasion   the   accused   had 

misbehaved with her.  The complainant also informed the police that 

at about 4:00­4:30 PM when her mother returned home she narrated 

her   about   the   incident   and   at   about   10:00   PM   when   her   father 

returned back home she and her mother disclosed about the to him.  

(3)            On the basis of the said complaint of the prosecutrix 'P' the 

present case was got registered.  The prosecutrix was taken to BJRM 

Hospital for her medical examination where initially she refused for 

her  internal   examination  but  on  being counseled  by  the  NGO  the 

prosecutrix   consented   for   the   same   after   which   her   internal 

examination   was   got   conducted   and   the   exhibits   were   taken   and 

handed over to the Investigating Officer.  The spot of the incident was 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                       Page No. 2
 got photographed and inspected by Crime Team Officials and one 

quilt cover having stains was seized by the Investigating Officer.  On 

7.4.2012   the   statement   of   the   prosecutrix   'P'   under   Section   164 

Cr.P.C. was got recorded before the Ld. MM wherein the prosecutrix 

'P'   made   similar   allegations   against   the   accused   Surya   Bhan. 

During investigations, 9.4.2012 the accused Surya Bhan @ Uday was 

arrested from New Delhi Railway Station and thereafter his blood 

samples were collected.  The samples were thereafter sent to FSL for 

DNA examination.   After completion of investigations charge sheet 

was filed against the accused.

CHARGE:
(4)              Charges under  Sections 341, 376 and 506 Indian Penal 

Code  were   settled   against   the   accused   Uday   Bhan   to   which   he 

pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.  

EVIDENCE:
(5)            In order to prove its case the prosecution has examined as 

many as Twenty Witnesses as under:

Prosecutrix/ Public Witnesses:
(6)            PW12 Rajender Prashad Aggarwal  has deposed that he 

has a trading business at the ground floor of 456/33, Onkar Nagar C, 

Tri   Nagar,   Delhi.     According   to   the   witness,   he   has   also   another 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                   Page No. 3
 house situated at 851/54, Lekhu Nagar, Tri Nagar, Delhi where on the 

second floor Shyam Narayan was residing on rent and on the third 

floor Uday @  Surya Bhan was residing as tenant. He has further 

deposed that Surya Bhan was also working at his house Onkar Nagar 

C on the ground floor in his trading business as a helper for about 

last   seven   years   and   he  used  to pay him  Rs.6,500/­  per month as 

salary and the rent from Surya Bhan used to be adjusted from his pay. 

According to the witness, he did not issue any rent receipt of the 

same to his tenants Surya Bhan and Shyam Narayan.  The witness has 

also deposed that accused Surya Bhan was an original resident of 

District Gorakhpur UP and he was having a photocopy of his voter I 

Card which he handed over to the police when police came to him for 

inquiry   which   is  Ex.PW12/A.     He   has   correctly   identified   the 

accused Surya Bhan in the court.
(7)            During his cross examination by Ld. Defence Counsel, the 

witness has deposed that he used to visit at his house at Lekhu Nagar 

also and there was cordial relationship between Shyam Narayan and 

accused Surya Bhan.  According to him Surya Bhan was working as 

his helper smoothly and was punctual in his duties.  He has further 

deposed that on 01.12.2011 one Pintoo was appointed by him in his 

trading business as helper since accused Surya Bhan was going for 

his marriage and in the last days of month of March 2012 Pintoo 

started residing at the third floor in another make shift room at his 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram           Page No. 4
 house  at   Lekhu   Nagar.   He has also deposed that  Pintoo was not 

examined by police in his presence and has voluntarily explained that 

police came to his house and recorded his statement.

(8)            PW13 Shyam Narayan @ Mahender has deposed that he 

is residing at 851, Gali No.54, (Third Floor) Lekhu Nagar, Tri Nagar, 

Delhi  on   rent   basis   which   premised   was   owned   by   Sh.   Rajender 

Prashad   Aggarwal   since   the   year   2007.     The   witness   has   further 

deposed that he used to work as a Kabari and was residing at the said 

house   along   with   his   wife   Bimla,   two   daughters   and   two   sons. 

According to him, the prosecutrix 'P' aged about 12 years is his eldest 

child and was studying in class 7th.   He has testified that accused 

Surya Bhan @ Uday was also residing on the top floor of the house 

and   also   used   to   work   at   the   shop   of   Rajender   Prashad   at   Onkar 

Nagar, Tri Nagar, Delhi.  According to the witness, on 04.04.2012 his 

three children including the prosecutrix 'P' had gone to their school 

and he had gone went for his work whereas his wife Bimla also went 

to   Tibia   College,   Karol   Bagh   with   his   youngest   child   for   taking 

medicine.     According   to  the   witness   at   about   10.00   PM   when   he 

came back to his house, his wife told him that Surya Bhan @ Uday 

committed rape upon 'P' at about 2.00PM on which he called Surya 

Bhan at his house and confronted him with the incident on which the 

accused   Surya   Bhan   apologized   and   told   him   that   he   would   not 

repeat such acts in future. The witness has testified that he slapped 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                    Page No. 5
 the   accused   two­three   times   but   the  accused  ran   away  from  there 

despite the fact that he tried to apprehend the accused.   Witness has 

also deposed that out of fear of humiliation and feeling  nervous he 

did  not go  to the  police station in the night  time but on the next 

morning   he   went   to   Police   Post   Shanti   Nagar   of   Police   Station 

Keshav Puram along with his daughter 'P' where his wife told all the 

facts to the police.  He has proved that police recorded the statement 

of his daughter 'P' in their presence vide  Ex.PW13/A  after which 

police  took  his daughter 'P' to BJRM Hospital.   His daughter felt 

scared in the hospital hence her internal examination could not be 

conducted and they returned back to the police post.  He has testified 

that one NGO official came at the police post and she counseled his 

daughter 'P' only after which his daughter 'P' became ready for her 

internal   examination   and   thereafter   they   again   went   to   BJRM 

Hospital   and   fresh   medical   examination   of   his   daughter   'P'   was 

conducted.    The  witness has testified that  thereafter they returned 

back to the police post and reached at the room of accused Surya 

Bhan where his daughter 'P' pointed out the place of incident and 

police officials conducted their proceedings and took photographs. 

He has proved that one cover of mattress (Gadda) was kept in a cloth 

pullanda and sealed the same and was seized vide memo Ex.PW4/B 

and   his   daughter   'P'   was   sent   to   Nari   Niketan.     The   witness   has 

further   deposed   that  on   09.04.2012   when   he   went   to   police   post 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                    Page No. 6
 Shanti Nagar for making inquiry about his daughter who was in the 

Nari Niketan at that time, he found the accused Surya Bhan @ Uday 

in the police post on which he identified him as Surya Bhan @ Uday 

who   had   committed   rape   upon   his   daughter   'P'   on   04.04.2012. 

According to him, the police arrested the accused Surya Bhan vide 

arrest   memo  Ex.PW2/A  and   his   personal   search   was   taken   vide 

Ex.PW2/B.  Witness has also correctly identified the accused Surya 

Bhan @ Uday in the Court.
(9)            In   his   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   counsel,   the 

witness has deposed that  he was residing in the above said house 

since the year 2007 and his first wife namely Israwati had expired in 

the village as she was suffering from illness so he married again with 

Bimla.  According to the witness, he was having three children from 

his earlier wife namely Israwati and out of them two children had 

expired and one daughter aged 18 years has already been got married 

by him.  He has testified that the marriage of Bimla with him was a 

second marriage and he does not remember the name of her previous 

husband.  According to him, Bimla did not have any child at the time 

of her marriage with him.   Witness has further deposed that he was 

having cordial relations with accused Surya Bhan and he used to visit 

their house and also take meals at their house.  He has admitted that 

accused Surya Bhan was going to be married in the month of June 

2012.     He   has   denied   the   suggestion   that   on   04.04.2012   accused 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                  Page No. 7
 Surya Bhan came to their house with mobile phone having messages 

or that he asked about the messages and thereafter he scolded him 

and gave beating to him.  The witness has also denied that his wife 

Bimla told the accused to run away from there, otherwise he would 

be given beatings by them.   Witness has admitted that he did not see 

that his daughter 'P' was talking with accused Surya Bhan at lonely 

places and has voluntarily explained that accused Surya Bhan came 

to their house as he was living alone, so they provided food to him. 

He has admitted that the accused also used to talk his daughter 'P' 

also.  The witness has further deposed that he reached at police post 

on 05.04.2012 at about 12.00 Noon  along with his daughter and wife 

and his daughter was taken to the BJRM Hospital by lady police with 

his   wife   but   her   internal   examination   could   not   be   conducted. 

According   to   him,   at   the   second   time   he  also   went   to  the   BJRM 

Hospital   along   with   his   daughter   and   wife   and   lady   police   for 

medical examination of his daughter 'P'.   He has also  deposed that 

police reached at the room of accused Surya Bhan at about 11.00P M 

and remained there for about one and half hour.   According to the 

witness on 09.04.2012 he reached at the police station at about 9.00 

AM and remained there only for about five to seven minutes and put 

his signatures on the arresting documents of the accused.   He has 

admitted   that   one   Pintoo   also   resided   in   the   same   house   and   has 

explained that he came there one and a half months prior to the day 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                   Page No. 8
 of   incident   i.e.   04.04.2012   and   is   stilling   residing   there.     He   has 

denied the suggestion that his wife did not disclose anything to him 

or that due to the quarrel with accused Surya Bhan about the message 

on his mobile phone, he falsely implicated the accused Surya Bhan in 

this case.  
(10)            PW16 Smt. Bimla Devi  is the mother of the prosecutrix 

'P' who has deposed that she is residing at House No.851, (third floor) 

Gali no.4, Lekhu Nagar, Tri Nagar, Delhi along with her husband and 

four children since the year 2007 on rent which house is owned by 

Rajender Prasad.  According to her, the accused Surya Bhan was also 

residing in the same house at the top floor and used to work as helper 

with Rajender Prashad at his another house.  She has testified that on 

04.04.2012   her   daughter   'P'   aged   about   12   years   and   other   two 

children   had   gone   to   their   school   at   about   7.00AM   whereas   her 

husband Shyam Narayan had gone for his Kabari work and she along 

with   her   youngest   child   went   to   Tibia   College,   Karol   Bagh   for 

medicine for her and for her child at about 11.00AM.  According to 

the witness, she also went to the Daya Basti from the Tibia College to 

visit her relative who was ill and thereafter at about 4.00­4.30PM she 

alongwith her youngest child reached at their house.   Witness has 

further deposed that she found her daughter 'P' in their house and her 

two children were playing in the gali in front of their house.  She has 

testified   that   the   prosecutrix  'P'  told her  that   accused  Surya  Bhan 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                      Page No. 9
 called at the roof of the house and thereafter took her in his room 

forcibly and committed rape upon her.  According to the witness, the 

prosecutrix 'P' was weeping at that time and told all the facts to her 

and at about 10.00PM her husband Shyam Narayan reached the house 

and told all the facts to him about the commission of rape committed 

by accused Surya Bhan with her daughter 'P'.  She has testified that 

her husband called Surya Bhan at their house after which they asked 

him as to why he had committed rape upon her daughter 'P' on which 

he apologized for his acts and told her that he would not repeat such 

acts in future.   She has also deposed that her husband slapped the 

accused   and   also   tried   to   beat   him   with   broom   (Jharoo)   but   the 

accused Surya Bhan ran away from there. According to the witness, 

they felt ashamed and insulted therefore they did not go to the police 

post in the night time but on the next day on 05.04.2012 at about 

11.00AM­12.00 (Noon) she along with her husband and daughter 'P' 

went to Police Post Shanti Nagar and told all the facts to the police. 

She has further deposed that police inquired about the facts from her 

daughter   'P'   and   recorded   her   statement   vide  Ex.PW13/A. 

According to the witness, thereafter she along with her daughter 'P' 

and lady police went to BJRM Hospital but her internal examination 

could not be done as she (prosecutrix) was scared after which they 

returned back to the police post.   Witness has also deposed that one 

NGO official came there and counseled her daughter 'P' after which 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                 Page No. 10
 she was ready for her internal examination and thereafter she along 

with   her  husband,   her  daughter   'P'   and   lady   police  again   went   to 

BJRM Hospital where the medical examination of her daughter 'P' 

was conducted.  She has proved that the prosecutrix 'P' also pointed 

out the place of incident from where one cover of mattress was sealed 

by   the   police.     The   witness   has   also   proved   that   the   police 

photographer took the photographs of the place of incident.  She has 

correctly identified the accused Surya Bhan @ Uday in the Court.

(11)            During her cross examination by Ld. Defence counsel, the 

witness   has   deposed   that   the  first  wife  of  her  husband  was  a  TB 

patient.  According to the witness, Shyam Narayan @ Mahender was 

married with her when she (first wife of her husband) was living who 

died after one month of her marriage.  She has also deposed that her 

first husband namely Ravinder was a drunkard and was not taking 

care   of   her   and   hence   she   separated   from   him   after   which   she 

married with Shyam Narayan.  The witness has testified that she had 

four children from her present husband.   She has testified that the 

accused was having cordial relation with their family members and 

she had not seen accused Surya Bhan misbehaving with her children 

prior to the day of incident.   She has admitted that marriage of the 

accused   Surya   Bhan   was   fixed   for   12.06.2012.    Witness   has   also 

deposed that the clothes of her daughter were not found torn by her. 

The witness has further deposed that she was not having any mobile 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                Page No. 11
 phone   at   their   house   so   she   could   not   inform   her   husband 

immediately   after   the   incident.     She   has   also   deposed   that   her 

statement was recorded in the police post and police seized the cover 

of mattress on 06.04.2012 at about 10.00AM.   She has denied the 

suggestion   that   on   04.04.2012   accused   Surya   Bhan   came   to   their 

house with mobile phone having messages or that the accused about 

the messages on which her husband scolded the accused and gave 

beating to him.   The witness has further denied the suggestion that 

she told the accused to ran away from there, otherwise he would be 

given beating by them or that her daughter 'P' did not say anything 

about the rape by accused to her.  She has also deposed that  doctor 

sealed the underwear and baniyan of her daughter 'P' in the hospital. 

She has admitted that she did not see her daughter 'P' talking with 

accused Surya Bhan at lonely places and has voluntarily explained 

that the accused Surya Bhan came to their house as he was living 

alone, hence they provide food to him sometimes and at that time he 

used to talk her daughter 'P' also.  She has denied the suggestion that 

accused Surya Bhan has been falsely implicated in the present case.

(12)             The  prosecutrix   'P'  has   been   examined   as  PW17  and 

during examination this Court observed the prosecutrix to be a minor 

much below 14 years of age.  She has deposed that she was residing 

at H. No. 851, (third floor), Gali No. 54, Lekhu Nagar, Tri Nagar, 

Delhi along with her parents and two brothers namely Prince aged 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram               Page No. 12
 about 9 years, Ashu aged about 6 years and one sister namely Pratima 

aged  about  4­5  years  since 2007 on rent  basis.   According to the 

witness, her date of birth is  09.06.2000.   She has also deposed that 

her father used to work as a Kabari and her mother is a housewife. 

Witness   has   further   deposed   that   she   was   studying   in   class   7th  at 

Govt. Girls senior secondary school, Tri Nagar, Narang colony, Delhi 

and in the upper floor of their house Surya Bhan, labour of their 

house   owner   was   residing.    Witness   has   also   deposed   that   on 

04.04.2012 she along with her two brothers had gone to their school 

in the morning time at about 7 AM and in the afternoon at about 1:00 

PM   she   along   with   her   brothers   returned   back   to   their   house. 

According to the prosecutrix she was having the keys of the house 

and she opened the same after which she and her brothers take their 

lunch which was already prepared by her mother.   Witness has also 

deposed that at that time her mother, her younger sister and her father 

were not present and her both brothers went in the gali to play and 

she  was  left  alone  in  their house.   She has testified that  at  about 

2­2:30 PM the accused Surya Bhan came at his room and called her 

in the staircase after which he caught hold her by her hands and took 

her to his room forcibly where he compelled her to lie on his bed. 

The prosecutrix has further deposed that the accused removed her 

salwar   and   underwear   and   also   removed   his   wearing   towel   and 

underwear and thereafter committed rape upon her.  She has deposed 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                   Page No. 13
 that   thereafter   she   returned   back   to   their   house   after   wearing   her 

clothes and at about 4­4:30 PM when her mother returned back to 

their   house,   she   informer   her   mother   about   the   incident   of 

commission   of  rape  by accused Surya Bhan on her.   Witness has 

further deposed that her father returned back to their house at about 

10 PM when she and her mother told about the incident to her father. 

She has also deposed that on the next day on 05.04.2012 at about 12 

noon she along with her parents went to the police post of police 

Station Keshavpuram where police inquired about the facts from her 

and   she   told   all   the   facts   to   them.     She   has   proved   that   police 

recorded her statement vide Ex.PW13/A. The prosecutrix has further 

deposed that the accused Surya Bhan had even misbehaved with her 

earlier on one occasion. The witness has testified that she was taken 

to BJRM hospital for medical checkup but her internal examination 

could not be conducted because she was scared and thereafter they 

returned back to the police chowki.   She has also deposed that one 

NGO officer came there to counsel her after which she agreed for her 

internal examination and therefore  she along with her parents and 

ladies   police   again   went   to   BJRM   hospital   where   her   medical 

examination was conducted and her underwear and baniyan were also 

sealed by the doctor in the hospital.  The witness has proved having 

pointed   out   the   place   of   incident   to   the   police.     She   has   further 

proved that police seized one cover of the mattress, on which she was 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                     Page No. 14
 forced   to  lie  by the  accused and committed rape upon her, which 

cover was kept in a cloth pullanda and sealed and was seized vide 

seizure memo Ex.PW4/B. 
(13)             The   prosecutrix   'P'   has   correctly   identified   the   accused 

Surya Bhan in the Court and also identified the case property i.e. 

one baniyan and one underwear as the one belonging to her which 

were   sealed   by   the   doctors,   which   underwear   is  Ex.P1,  Baniyan 

which is Ex.P2 and one quilt cover which is Ex.P3.  

(14)            In   her   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   counsel,   the 

witness has deposed that accused Surya Bhan @ Uday used to visit 

their   house   sometimes   whenever   her   parents   were   present   and   he 

used   to   talk   with   her   and   her   brothers   and   sister   occasionally. 

According to the witness, two to three days before the day of incident 

accused   Surya   Bhan   teased/   misbehaved   with   her   and   she   also 

informed her mother about this eve teasing by the accused.  Witness 

has further deposed that her mother did not call the accused after this 

incident of eve teasing nor she scolded or warned the accused but 

instead advised her not to meet the accused Surya Bhan.   She has 

testified that her mother was having one phone and her father had 

also one phone.   She is not aware how to send messages from the 

mobile phones but states that she can use the mobile phone.  Witness 

has also deposed  that there are other residential houses near their 

house and one person Pintoo also used to live in the same house in 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                    Page No. 15
 the separate room.   She has testified that Pintoo also came at her 

room on  the  day of incident but he came before 2:00 PM for his 

lunch.   The witness has  further deposed that they had three keys of 

the lock of their house and her father, mother and herself having the 

one   key   each.     According   to   the   witness   she   was   called   by   the 

accused   Surya   Bhan,   then   she   went   to   staircase   in   front   of   their 

kitchen. Witness has further deposed that when the accused took her 

forcibly in the room, he shut the door immediately.   She has stated 

that   she   did   not   bite   on   the   body   of   the   accused.     She   has   also 

deposed that when accused committed sexual intercourse with her no 

blood was oozed out and her clothes were not torn at the time of the 

incident.   The witness has also deposed that no injury was received 

by her during the incident and she was freed after five minutes by the 

accused.  According to the witness, she did not raise any alarm after 

the incident because nobody was present in the house nor she made 

any call to her mother because the STD booth was away from her 

house.   She has testified that her mother did not make call to her 

father regarding the incident.  She has admitted that she had not told 

the   name   of   the   accused   to   the   doctor   in   the   hospital   and   has 

voluntarily explained that the doctor had never asked her about the 

same.   She has testified that police officials came to their house on 

06.04.2012 at about 8:30 AM and remained there for about one to 

two hours.  The witness has denied the suggestion that no incident as 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                      Page No. 16
 narrated by her had taken place or that she was deposing falsely on 

the tutoring of her parents.  She has also denied the suggestion that 

accused came to their house with his mobile phone objecting to the 

messages received by him from the mobile of her father and after the 

matter got aggravated her family has falsely implicated the accused in 

the present case.  


Medical witnesses:
(15)             PW9 Dr. Vaibhav has deposed that on 05.04.2012 he was 

on duty as Casualty Medical Officer at BJRM hospital and on that 

day patient 'P' D/o Shyam Narayan, female, 12 years old was brought 

by Lady Ct. Anita for medical examination with alleged history of 

sexual assault. According to him, Dr. Nitish medically examined the 

patient 'P' at 1.55PM on 05.04.2012 under his supervision and after 

her medical  examination  Dr. Nitish prepared the MLC No. 39965 

which is Ex.PW9/A. Witness has further deposed that there was no 

fresh external injury seen on the person of patient 'P' in the casualty 

at   the   time   of   her   examination   and   she   was   referred   to   Gynae 

Department for further examination.  The witness has not been cross 

examined   by   the   Ld.   defence   counsel   despite   opportunity   in   this 

regard and his testimony has gone uncontroverted. 

(16)            PW10 Dr. Mamta has deposed that on 05.04.2012 she was 

on duty in the Gynae Department in BJRM hospital and on that day 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram               Page No. 17
 at about 1.55 PM the patient 'P' D/o Shyam Narayan, female, 12 years 

old   was   brought   at   the   hospital   by   Lady   Ct.   Anita   for   medical 

examination   with   alleged   history   of   sexual   assault   and   she   was 

medically examined at the casualty of the hospital vide  Ex.PW9/A 

after which she was referred to the Gynae Department for further 

examination.  She has also deposed that in the Gynae Department she 

examined the patient 'P' with alleged history of sexual assault and on 

local examination she did not find any fresh external injury on the 

person   of   patient   'P'.     According   to   the   witness,   the   patient   she 

refused   for   her   internal   examination.     She   has   proved   her 

observations on  Ex.PW9/A  from point X to X­1.   The witness has 

further deposed that again on 05.04.2012 at 10.00PM the patient 'P' 

was brought to the hospital for her medical examination with alleged 

history   of   sexual   assault   on   04.04.2012   and   she   was   medically 

examined   at   the   casualty   vide  Ex.PW10/A  after   which   she   was 

referred to Gynae Department.  She has proved that during internal 

examination she did not find any injury marks seen over the external 

genitalia and the hymen of the patient 'P' was torn.  According to 

the witness, she gave her observations at encircled portion X bearing 

her signatures at point A.  She has proved having taken the samples 

and collected in the kit and handed over same to the police in sealed 

condition with the seal of hospital with sample seal.



St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                   Page No. 18
 (17)            In her  her cross examination by Ld. Defence counsel, the 

witness has admitted that she had not mentioned that the hymen was 

fresh torn. According to her, Hymen­tear could be possible by injury 

in that region after falling on the ground.   
(18)            PW14 Dr. Deepak Chugh  has deposed on behalf of Dr. 

Sandeep.   According to him,  on 05.04.2012 at about 10.00PM the 

patient 'P' D/o Shyam Narayan, female, 12 years was brought at the 

hospital casualty by Lady Ct. Anita and was medically examined by 

Dr. Azia Manzoor vide Ex.PW10/A and there was no fresh external 

injury on the person of 'P' after which she was referred to the Gynae 

Department   of   the   hospital.    The   witness   has   not   been   cross 

examined   by   the   Ld.   defence   counsel   despite   opportunity   in   this 

regard and his testimony has gone uncontroverted. 



Forensic Experts:
(19)            PW15 Sh. A.K. Shrivastava Deputy Director, DNA Unit, 

FSL Rohini, Delhi has deposed that on 12.04.2012 four sealed parcels 

of case FIR No. 85/12 of Police Station Keshav Puram were received 

in their DNA Unit at FSL Rohini, Delhi with sample seal  and he 

tallied the same and found the same as intact.  According to him on 

opening the parcel no.1 he found one quilt cover which was marked 

by   him   as  Ex.1;   on  opening   the   parcel   no.2   he   found  Ex.2a 

containing  Ex.2a(1)  and  Ex.2a(2)  one underwear and one baniyan 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram               Page No. 19
 respectively and 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e, 2f, 2g and 2h containing Ex.2h(1) and 

Ex.2h(2) and 2h(3) and 2i containing 2i (1), 2i(2) and 2i(3) and 2j, 2k 

and   2l   in   respect   of   the   prosecutrix   described   as   sexual   assault 

collection kit; in parcel no.3 he found one towel Ex.3 and on opening 

the parcel No.4 he found the blood sample of Surya Bhan marked as 

Ex.4.  Witness has proved that the DNA was isolated from the exhibit 

2a(1)( one underwear);  2h(1) & 2h(2) (two micro­slides);  2h (3) 

(cotton wool swab);  2i(1)  &  2i(2) (two micro­slides);  2i(3) cotton 

wool   swab  and  Ex.4   (blood   sample   of   Surya   Bhan).     He   has 

testified that STR sample analysis was used for sample and data was 

analyzed  by  using  Gen  Mapper ID­X Software. According to him 

after examination he opined that the DNA profile from the source of 

Ex.2a(1), 2h(1), 2h(2), 2h(3), 2i(1), 2i(2), 2i(3) is similar with DNA 

profile of Ex.4. Witness has proved his detailed report in this regard 

which is  Ex.PW15/A  and the Genotype Analysis Report  which is 

Ex.PW15/B.   According to him,  the remnants of the exhibits and 

exhibits were sealed with the seal of AKS FSL DELHI.  

(20)             In   his  cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   counsel,   the 

witness has denied the suggestion that he had signed his report in a 

mechanical manner or that he had not conducted any examination of 

the above said exhibits.  Witness has also denied the suggestion that 

he had given a false report at the instance of the Investigating Officer.



St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                  Page No. 20
 Police/ official witnesses:
(21)            PW1 HC Naresh Kumar  is a formal witness being the 

MHCM   who   has   been   examined   by   way   of   affidavit   which   is 

Ex.PW1/1 (as per the provisions of Section 296 Cr.P.C.) wherein he 

has proved the entry bearing No. 2740/12 in register no.19 copy of 

which   is  Ex.PW1/A;   entry   at  Sr.   No.2752/12   copy   of   which   is 

Ex.PW1/B; entry bearing no. RC/30/21/12 in register no. 21 copy of 

which is Ex.PW1/C and copy of receipt/ acknowledgment issued by 

FSL which is Ex.PW1/D.  The witness has not been cross examined 

by the Ld. defence counsel despite opportunity in this regard and his 

testimony has gone uncontroverted. 
(22)             PW2 HC Ramesh is also a formal witness who has  been 

examined   by   way   of   affidavit   which   is  Ex.PW2/1  (as   per   the 

provisions of Section 296 Cr.P.C.) wherein he has proved the  arrest 

memo of accused Surya Bhan which is Ex.PW2/A; personal search 

memo of the accused which is  Ex.PW2/B  and disclosure statement 

of the accused which is Ex.PW2/C. He has been cross­examined by 

the Ld. Defence Counsel on the aforesaid aspects and has stood by 

his version.  
(23)             PW3   SI   Sanjeev   Verma  is   a   formal   witness   being   the 

Crime   Team   Inchare   who  has   been   examined   by  way  of   affidavit 

which is  Ex.PW3/1  (as per the provisions of Section 296 Cr.P.C.) 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                  Page No. 21
 wherein he has proved the Crime Team Report which is Ex.PW3/A. 

He has not been cross examined by the Ld. defence counsel despite 

opportunity in this regard and his testimony has gone uncontroverted. 

(24)             PW4 Lady Ct. Anita  is also a formal witness who has 

been examined by way of affidavit which is  Ex.PW4/1  (as per the 

provisions of Section 296 Cr.P.C.) wherein she has proved the DD 

No.14 PP dated 05.04.2012 which is   Ex.PW4/A;  seizure memo of 

cover of mattress which is Ex.PW4/B and seizure memo of exhibits 

of prosecutrix which is Ex.PW4/C.  She has been cross­examined by 

the Ld. Defence Counsel on the aforesaid aspects and has stood by 

his version.  
(25)             PW5   Ct.   Deepak  is   a   formal   witness   who   has   been 

examined   by   way   of   affidavit   which   is  Ex.PW5/1  (as   per   the 

provisions of Section 296 Cr.P.C.) wherein he has proved the entry in 

register no. 21 vide RC 30/21/12 copy of which is  Ex.PW1/C  and 

copy   of   receipt   /   acknowledgment   issued   by   FSL   which   is 

Ex.PW1/D.   The witness has not been cross examined by the Ld. 

defence counsel despite opportunity in this regard and his testimony 

has gone uncontroverted. 
(26)             PW6 ASI Satbir  is also a formal witness being the Duty 

Officer   who   has   been   examined   by   way   of   affidavit   which   is 

Ex.PW6/1 (as per the provisions of Section 296 Cr.P.C.) wherein he 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram               Page No. 22
 has proved the copy of FIR No. 85/12 which is  Ex.PW6/A  and his 

endorsement   on   rukka   which   is  Ex.PW6/B.     He   has   been   cross­

examined by the Ld. Defence Counsel on the aforesaid aspects and 

has stood by his version.  
(27)             PW7   Ct.   Subhash   Chand  is   the   Crime   Team 

Photographer who has been examined by way of affidavit which is 

Ex.PW7/1 (as per the provisions of Section 296 Cr.P.C.) wherein he 

has proved the photographs which are Ex.PW7/A­1 to Ex.PW7/A­6 

and the CD of the photographs which is Ex.PW7/B.  The witness has 

not   been   cross   examined   by   the   Ld.   defence   counsel   despite 

opportunity in this regard and his testimony has gone uncontroverted. 

(28)             PW8   Ct.   Net  Ram   is  a  formal   witness  who  has  been 

examined   by   way   of   affidavit   which   is  Ex.PW8/1  (as   per   the 

provisions of Section 296 Cr.P.C.) wherein he has proved the seizure 

memo   of   exhibits   of   accused   which   is  Ex.PW8/A.    He   has   been 

cross­examined by the Ld. Defence Counsel on the aforesaid aspects 

and has stood by his version.  
(29)             PW11   Mrs.   Sunita  Mehta  Vice  Principal,   Government 

Girls   Sr.   Sec.   School,   Narang   Colony,   Tri   Nagar   has  brought   the 

original   record   in   respect   of   admission   of   the   prosecutrix   'P'   D/o 

Mahender and Smt. Bimla Devi.  According to her, the prosecutrix 'P' 

was admitted in their school on 01.04.2011 vide S.No. 6889 in class 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                   Page No. 23
 6th  photocopy   of   which   admission   register   in   this   regard   is 

Ex.PW11/A  and   according   to   admission   register   date   of   birth   of 

prosecutrix 'P' is  09.06.2000.   Witness has further deposed that the 

admission   form   of   the   prosecutrix   was   filled   by   Mahender   Singh 

which is Ex.PW11/B and at the time of admission of 'P', her previous 

school   SLC   and   class   5th  report   card   of   MCD   School,   Tri   Nagar 

(Deva Ram Park) was also submitted by her father in their school, 

photocopy of which SLC is Ex.PW11/C and photocopy of the report 

card is Ex.PW11/D.  She has proved having issued a certificate about 

the date of birth of the said prosecutrix 'P' which is Ex.PW11/E.

(30)             In   her   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   counsel,   the 

witness has deposed that she has no personal knowledge about the 

date of birth of the prosecutrix 'P'.   She has admitted that no birth 

certificate of the prosecutrix 'P' was submitted in their school at the 

time of her admission.
(31)            PW18   SI   Subhash   Chander  has   deposed   that   on 

05.04.2012 he was posted at police post Shanti Nagar,  police station 

Keshavpuram   and   on   that   day  at   about   12:45  PM   complainant   'P' 

along with her mother Bimla Devi and father Shyam Narain came to 

the police post Shanti Nagar and made a complaint regarding rape 

committed   on   'P'   by   Surya   Bhan.   According   to   the   witness,   he 

immediately directed L/Ct. Anita to take the prosecutrix to BJRM 

hospital  along  with  the  parents of the prosecutrix for her medical 
St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                   Page No. 24
 examination. Witness has further deposed that at about 3:15 PM the 

prosecutrix 'P' accompanied by her parents and L/Ct. Anita came to 

the police post and he was handed over the MLC of the prosecutrix, 

after  which he recorded the statement of the prosecutrix which is 

Ex.PW13/A.     According   to   the   witness,   he   then   went   to   Police 

Station Keshavpuram and made his endorsement on the complaint 

vide  Ex.PW18/A  which   he   handed   over   the   Duty   Officer   for 

registration   of   the   case   at   about   4:15   PM.  Witness   has   further 

deposed that since the case involved a sexual assault the SHO was 

also apprised of the incident and W/SI Urmil was associated with the 

investigations along with himself.   He has further deposed that the 

Duty Officer handed over the copy of the FIR and original rukka to 

SI   Urmil.   According   to   the  witness,   he  immediately  informed   the 

women   help   line/   NGO and thereafter they returned to the  police 

chowki where the prosecutrix and her parents were already sitting. 

He has testified  that at about 6:00 PM representative of the NGO 

came to the police post and counseled the prosecutrix for about one - 

one and a half hours.  According to the witness, he also informed the 

crime team during this period and after the crime team reached the 

police chowki he along with, Ct. Anita, SI Urmil, prosecutrix and her 

parents went to house No. 851, gali No. 54, Lekhu Nagar, Tri Nagar 

on  the third  floor where prosecutrix had pointed out the place of 

incident. He has further deposed that Photographer of the crime team 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram               Page No. 25
 had taken the photographs of the spot and the scene was inspected. 

He has proved that on the pointing out of the complainant the white 

bed sheet which was spread over the gadda was taken into possession 

by SI Urmil and converted into a pullanda after which she sealed the 

same with her seal and prepared the seizure memo vide Ex.PW4/B. 

Witness   has   testified   that   thereafter   on   the   pointing   out   of 

complainant 'P', site plan was prepared by SI Urmil in his presence 

after   which   he   and   SI   Urmil   interrogated   the   father   of   the 

complainant  regarding  the accused during which he informed that 

accused Surya Bhan was working in gali No. 33, Omkar Nagar with 

Rajender   Kumar,   the   owner   of   the   house.   The   witness   has   also 

deposed   that   thereafter   at   about   9:00   PM   the   prosecutrix   'P'   was 

again sent for her internal examination along with L/Ct. Anita and 

parents of the prosecutrix.   He has proved that thereafter he along 

with  SI Urmil  went to  the house of Rajender Parshad where they 

interrogated Rajender Parshad about the whereabouts of accused who 

informed that accused Surya Bhan had not reported to his duty on 

that day.   Witness has also deposed that  Rajender Parshad handed 

over   ID   proof   and   photograph   of   the   accused   after   which   they 

returned back to the spot and tried to search for the accused but he 

could not be traced there and thereafter at about 11 PM they returned 

back to the Police Post.   The witness has further testified  that  on 

06.04.2012 at about 1:30 AM (midnight) complainant along with her 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                 Page No. 26
 parents and  L/Ct. Anita returned back to the police post after the 

medical examination of the prosecutrix and L/Ct. Anita handed over 

the exhibits which were given to her by the doctors in the hospital to 

SI Urmil along with sample seal on which SI Urmil  seized the same 

in his presence.  According to the witness, he thereafter recorded the 

statement of mother and father of the prosecutrix on the directions of 

SI   Urmil   and   thereafter   SI   Urmil   recorded   the   supplementary 

statement of the prosecutrix 'P' and his statement was recorded by SI 

Urmil.   He has testified that  on 07.04.2012 on the directions of the 

senior officers, he along with HC Ramesh went to the native village 

of accused i.e. village Bhapasa, Post Thana Sajanwa, Gorkhpur, UP 

where he reached at about 12 noon on 08.04.2012 and came to know 

that the accused had left his native village and had gone to Delhi 

along with his brother Subhash.  According to the witness they tried 

to search for the accused on the platform but could not locate him 

and thereafter on the next day i.e. on 09.04.2012 at about 7:30 AM 

they returned back to Delhi.   He has testified that while they were 

searching for the accused at the main gate of New Delhi Railway 

Station with the help of photograph of the accused which was handed 

over by Rajender, they found one person resembling the person in the 

photograph   and   on   interrogation   he   disclosed   his   name   as   Surya 

Bhan, S/o Dukh Haran after which they had taken the said person to 

the police post.  According to the witness, thereafter he informed SI 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram              Page No. 27
 Urmil about the same who came to the police post at about 10 AM 

and interrogated the accused and during the same period, father of 

the complainant namely Shyam Narain came to the police post who 

identified   the   accused   Surya   Bhan   as   the   same   person.     He   has 

proved   that  thereafter   SI   Urmil   arrested   the   accused   vide   arrest 

memo Ex.PW2/A and his personal search was also conducted by HC 

Ramesh   vide   memo  Ex.PW2/B  and   thereafter   father   of   the 

complainant was relieved from the police post.  Witness has further 

deposed that SI Urmil interrogated the accused in detail during which 

the   accused   made   his   disclosure   statement   vide  Ex.PW2/C  and 

thereafter he along with SI Urmil and the accused left the police post 

for the spot where accused pointed out the place of incident and at his 

instance one towel of white and purple check was recovered which 

was   kept   in   a  cloth   pullanda  and  sealed  with   the  seal   of  US  and 

seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW18/B.  According to the witness the 

accused was thereafter taken to BJRM hospital and after his medical 

examination, the doctor handed over two sealed pullandas sealed with 

the seal of hospital along with sample seal duly which was seized by 

the Investigating Officer vide memo Ex.PW8/A.  
(32)             He has correctly identified the accused Sura Bhan in the 

Court and also identified the case property i.e. one cover of mattress 

which is Ex.P3 and one towel which is Ex.P4.  


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram               Page No. 28
 (33)             In   his   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   Counsel,   the 

witness has deposed that the prosecutrix 'P' along with her parents 

came to the police station at about 12:45 PM and remained there upto 

about   2:30   AM.     He   has   testified   that   they   went   to  the   house   of 

prosecutrix 'P' at about 7:45 PM and remained there upto 11:00 PM. 

According   to   him,   Pintoo   was   not   examined   by   the   Investigating 

Officer   in   his   presence   and   no   neighbor   was   examined   by   the 

Investigating Officer in his presence.   Witness has also deposed that 

his   statement   was   recorded   by   the   Investigating   Officer   at   Police 

Station Shanti Nagar.   He has denied the suggestion that he did not 

join the investigations with the Investigating Officer or that nothing 

had happened in his presence.  He has also denied the suggestion that 

accused was not arrested in the manner as deposed by him in his 

examination   in   chief   or  that  the  accused  has been  lifted  from  the 

Khalilpur Distt. Basti, U.P. and falsely implicated in this case. The 

witness has further denied the suggestion that no disclosure statement 

was   made   by   the   accused   or   that   nothing   was   recovered   in   his 

presence or that he recorded false statement of 'P' at the instance of 

her father Shyam Narain to falsely implicate the accused in this case. 

(34)             PW19 ASI Urmil Sharma  has deposed that on 5.4.2012 

she was posted at Sub Division Ashok Vihar, Rape Cell and on the 

asking of SHO Police Station Keshav Puram she reached at the police 

station   on   which   Duty   Officer   handed   over   copy   of   the   FIR   and 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                    Page No. 29
 original   statement   of   prosecutrix   'P'   along   with   original   rukka. 

According to the witness, she reached at the Police Post Shanti Nagar 

where prosecutrix and her parents met her and SI Subhash also met 

her there and called the NGO officials from Sampurna and the NGO 

official counselled the prosecutrix after which the prosecutrix was 

ready for internal examination.  She has testified that after the Crime 

Team   reached   the   police   chowki   she   along   with   Ct.   Anita,   SI 

Subhash, prosecutrix and her parents went to house No. 851, gali No. 

54, Lekhu Nagar, Tri Nagar on the third floor where prosecutrix 'P' 

had pointed out the place of incident. According to her, photographer 

of   the   crime  team   had   taken the  photographs  of  the spot  and the 

scene   of   crime   was   inspected   and   on   the   pointing   out   of   the 

complainant the white bed cover which was spread over the gadda 

was taken into possession which was converted into a pullanda after 

which   she   sealed   the  same  with her seal  of  US  and prepared the 

seizure memo vide Ex.PW4/B.  Witness has further deposed that she 

prepared   the   site   plan  Ex.PW20/A  at  the   instance   of   victim   'P'. 

According to the witness, she and SI Subhash interrogated the father 

of the complainant regarding the accused during which he informed 

that accused Surya Bhan was working in gali No. 33, Omkar Nagar 

with Rajender Kumar, the owner of the house.  She has also testified 

that  thereafter at about 9:00 PM prosecutrix was again sent for her 

internal   examination   along   with   L/Ct.   Anita   and   parents   of   the 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram               Page No. 30
 prosecutrix after which she along with SI Subhash went to the house 

of Rajender Parshad where they interrogated Rajender Parshad about 

the whereabouts of accused who informed that accused Surya Bhan 

had not reported for his duty on that day.   She has further deposed 

that Rajender Parshad handed over ID proof and photograph of the 

accused   which   is  Ex.PW12/A.    The   witness   has   testified   that 

thereafter they returned back to the spot and tried to search for the 

accused but he could not be traced there and hence thereafter at about 

11:00 PM they returned back to the police post.  According to her, on 

06.04.2012 at about 1:30 AM (midnight) complainant along with her 

parents and  L/Ct. Anita returned back to the police post after the 

medical examination of the prosecutrix and L/Ct. Anita handed over 

the exhibits which were given to her by the doctors in the hospital to 

her   along   with   sample   seal   and   she   seized   the   same   vide   memo 

Ex.PW4/C.     The   witness   has   also   deposed   that   thereafter   she 

recorded the statement of the mother and the father of the prosecutrix 

and the supplementary statement of the prosecutrix 'P'.  Witness has 

also deposed that on 6.4.2012 the prosecutrix 'P' was sent to Nirmal 

Chhaya.   According   to   her,   on   07.04.2012   the   prosecutrix   was 

produced before the Ld. MM and her statement under Section 164 

Cr.P.C. was recorded and obtained the copy of the same.  Witness has 

further deposed that on 9.4.2012, she came at the Police Post Shanti 

Nagar and arrested the accused vide arrest memo Ex.PW2/A and his 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram               Page No. 31
 personal search was conducted vide  Ex.PW2/B  and his disclosure 

statement  was  recorded  vide memo  Ex.PW2/C.   She has testified 

that thereafter she along with SI Subhash and the accused left the 

police   post   for   the   spot   where   accused   pointed   out   the   place   of 

incident and at his instance one towel of white and purple check was 

recovered which was kept in a cloth pullanda and sealed with the seal 

of US and seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW18/B.  According to the 

witness, thereafter the accused was taken to BJRM hospital and after 

his   medical   examination,   the   doctor   handed   over   two   sealed 

pullandas sealed with the seal of hospital along with sample seal duly 

which   were   seized   vide   memo  Ex.PW8/A.  Witness   has   further 

deposed that she deposited the seized articles in the malkhana on the 

respected   dates   and   recorded   the   statements   of   the   witnesses. 

According to her, during investigations on 12.4.2012 the exhibits of 

this case were sent to the FSL Rohini through Ct. Deepak for DNA 

profiling   and   thereafter   she   was   transferred  and  the   case   file  was 

handed over to MHC (R).  She has correctly identified the accused in 

the Court and the case property i.e. one cover of mattress which is 

Ex.P3 and one towel which is Ex.P4.  
(35)             During   her   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   counsel, 

witness has deposed that the investigations of the case was handed 

over to her  at  about  5/5:15 PM  on 5.4.2012 and they went to the 

house of prosecutrix at about 8 PM where she remained for about one 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                  Page No. 32
 to  one  and   half   hour.     According to the witness she recorded the 

statements of the parents of the prosecutrix, SI Subhash, L/Ct. Anita, 

R. P. Aggarwal on 5.4.2012.  She has denied the suggestion that she 

did not conduct fair investigations in this case or that the accused has 

been   falsely   implicated   at   the   instance   of   the   parents   of   the 

prosecutrix.   Witness has admitted that Pintoo was not examined or 

interrogated   by   her   and   has   voluntarily   explained   that   she   is   not 

aware   if   there   was   any   person   by   the   name   of   Pintoo.     She   has 

admitted that no date of birth certificate of the prosecutrix issued by 

the MCD was handed over to her by the parents of the prosecutrix.  

(36)             PW20 PSI Lakshmi Singh has deposed that on 7.5.2012 

she was posted at Police Station Keshav Puram and on that day the 

investigations of this case was handed over to her on which she had 

gone through the file.  She has testified that the accused was already 

in   judicial   custody   and   on   8.5.2012   she   obtained   14  days   judicial 

custody   of   the  accused   and recorded the statement  of crime team 

members under Section 161 Cr.PC and thereafter she prepared the 

charge sheet and filed the same in the court.     The witness has not 

been cross examined by the Ld. defence counsel despite opportunity 

in this regard and his testimony has gone uncontroverted. 


STATEMENT OF THE ACCUSED/ DEFENCE EVIDENCE:
(37)  After completion of prosecution evidence the statement of 

the accused Surya Bhan has been recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                   Page No. 33
 wherein all incriminating evidence was put to him which the accused 

has denied.   He has stated that he is innocent and has been falsely 

implicated in this case by the complainant due to previous disputes. 

He has further stated that there used to be quarrel between them on 

trivial issues and also on financial issues.  According to the accused, 

on 4.4.2012 he had received messages from the mobile of the father 

of the prosecutrix on which he went to his room and objected to the 

same   but   the   issue   got   aggravated   on   which   the   father   of   the 

prosecutrix gave beatings to him and threatened to implicate her in 

some false case.   He has also stated that later on the father of the 

complainant   in   connivance   with   the   police   implicated   him   in   this 

false   case.     However,   the   accused   has   preferred   not   to   lead   any 

evidence in his defence.

FINDINGS:
(38)             I have heard the arguments advanced before me by the Ld. 

Addl. PP for the State and the Ld. Defence Counsel.  I have also gone 

through   the   testimonies   of  the   various  witnesses   examined  by  the 

prosecution   and   the   written   memorandum   of   arguments   filed   on 

behalf of the accused.  My findings are as under:

Identity of the accused:
(39)             In   so   far   as   the   identity   of   the   accused   Surya   Bhan   is 

concerned there is no dispute.  He has been specifically named in the 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                         Page No. 34
 FIR by the complainant/ victim.   He was previously known to the 

prosecutrix and her family members since the accused was living in 

the same premises on the top floor as proved by Rajender Prashad 

Aggarwal (PW12) and has been correctly identified by the owner of 

the   premises   Rajender   Prashad   Aggarwal,   the   victim   'P'   and   her 

parents in the Court.   In view of the above, I hereby hold that the 

identity of the accused Surya Bhan stands established.



Age of the prosecutrix: 
(40)             The case of the prosecution is that the victim 'P' at the time 

of incident was hardly aged 12 years of age and was studying in class 

7th.  Smt. Sunita Mehta (PW11) has produced the school record of the 

prosecutrix 'P' according to which the date of birth of the prosecutrix 

'P' is 9.6.2000 which was recorded on the basis of the School Leaving 

Certificate   and   class   5th  report   card   issued   by   the   MCD   School 

establishing   that   at   the   time   of   the   incident   the  prosecutrix   was 

around 12 years of age.  In view of the above, I hereby hold that the 

prosecutrix 'P' at the time of incident was aged about 12 years, an 

aspect which has gone uncontroverted.  


Medical Evidence:
(41)            Dr. Vaibhav (PW9) and Dr. Mamta (PW10) have proved 

the   MLC   of   the   prosecutrix   'P'   which   is  Ex.PW9/A.   PW10   Dr. 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                 Page No. 35
 Mamta has proved that initially the prosecutrix 'P' had alleged that 

there   was   a   history   of   sexual   assault   but   refused   for   internal 

examination but on the same day after counselling the prosecutrix 'P' 

was again brought to the hospital when she consented to her internal 

examination.   According to Dr. Mamta she had found the hymen of 

the prosecutrix torn after which she took the samples and collected in 

the kit and handed over the same to the police in sealed condition. 

Here, I may observe that though Dr. Mamta (PW10) has testified that 

the hymen torn can be possible by falling on the ground yet in the 

allegations   made   by   the   prosecutrix   'P'   there   is   no   reason   to 

disbelieve her version of the prosecutrix more so because in case of a 

tearing of hymen by accident or fall the surrounding genitalia would 

also be injured which is not the case.  More over the prosecutrix 'P' is 

aged about 12 years and in a position to explain the reasons for the 

tear   of   the   hymen.     Once   the   prosecutrix   has   explained   that   the 

hymen was torn on account of sexual assault there is no reason to 

disbelieve   the   same   since   the   aspect   of   sexual   assault   also   stands 

established from the DNA Fingerprinting Report which connects the 

accused to the offence.  In view of the above, I hereby hold that the 

medical evidence on record is compatible to the prosecution case.


Forensic Evidence:
(42)      PW15   Sh.   A.K.   Shrivastava   has   proved   the   DNA 

Fingerprinting   Report   which   is  Ex.PW15/A  and   the   Genotype 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                   Page No. 36
 Analysis   Report   which   is  Ex.PW15/B.     He   has   proved   that   STR 

Sample Analysis was used for the samples and data was analysed by 

using Gen Mapper ID­X Software.  The witness has also proved that 

after examination he opined that the DNA Profile from the source of 

Ex.2a(1)   [underwear   of   the   prosecutrix];   2h(1)   [Micro­slide]; 

2h(2) [Micro­slide]; 2h(3) [cotton wool swab]; 2i(1) [Micro­slide]; 

2i(2) [Micro­slide] & 2i(3) [cotton wool swab] were similar with the 

DNA Profile of exhibit 4 (blood sample of accused Surya Bhan). 

This   conclusively   nails   the   lies   of   the   accused   and   confirms   the 

allegations   made   by   the   prosecutrix   'P'   against   the   accused   Surya 

Bhan of having committed rape upon her.


Allegations against the accused:
(43)             The   case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   the   family   of   the 

prosecutrix 'P' was residing on second floor of premises No. 851/54, 

Lekhu Nagar, Tri Nagar, Delhi as tenant which premises belong to 

Rajender Prashad Aggarwal and the accused Surya Bhan @ Uday 

was   residing   on   the   top   floor.   The   accused   Surya   Bhan   was   also 

working as a labour in the house of Rajender Prashad Aggarwal on 

the ground floor and was helping in his business for the last seven 

years.   On the date of incident i.e. 4.4.2012 while the father of the 

prosecutrix 'P' had gone for his work and all others were not at home, 

the accused Surya Bhan @ Uday taking advantage of their absence 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                       Page No. 37
 called her to his room and thereafter forcible committed rape upon 

her.     In   the   evening   when   the   mother   of   the   minor   prosecutrix 

returned she informed her about the incident and the mother in turn 

informed the father when he returned.   On the next day the matter 

was reported to the police.  Initially when the prosecutrix was taken 

to   BJRM   Hospital   the   prosecutrix   'P'   refused   for   her   internal 

examination but later after she was duly counselled by the NGO, the 

prosecutrix was again taken to the hospital for her fresh examination 

on the same date when the mother of the prosecutrix 'P' consented for 

her   internal   examination.     After   the   medical   examination   of   the 

prosecutrix the exhibits were collected which were handed over to the 

Investigating Officer and later on sent to the FSL for examination. 

The most material witness of the prosecution is the minor prosecutrix 

'P'   herself   whose   testimony   finds   due   corroboration   from   the 

testimonies of her parents.   In fact Rajender Prashad Aggarwal the 

owner of the premises who has been examined as PW12, has proved 

that the family of the prosecutrix 'P' was residing on the 2nd floor in 

the premises in question where the accused Surya Bhan whom he has 

correctly identified in the Court, was residing on the third floor.  

(44)             Before evaluating the statement of the prosecutrix on the 

touch stone of truthfulness and credibility, it is necessary to briefly 

discuss  the  guiding principles of law as laid down by the various 

Courts.   I may observe that the Hon'ble Supreme Court has in the 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram               Page No. 38
 case of State of Rajasthan Vs. Biram Lal reported in 2005 AIR (SC)  

2327 has held that:
(45)             In the year 2006 the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of 

State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. Asha Ram reported in AIR 2006 SC  

381 had observed that:
(46)             It was further observed by the Hon'ble Court that:

(47)            Further, in the case  of  Vishnu Vs. State of Maharastra 

reported in 2006 AIR (SC) 508 it was observed by the Hon'ble Apex 

Court that:
                    ".....   In   the traditional  non­permissive bounds  of  
                    society of India, no girl or woman of self­respect  

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                           Page No. 40
                     and   dignity   would   depose   falsely   implicating  
                    somebody of ravishing her chastity by sacrificing  
                    and   jeopardizing   her   future   prospect   of   getting  
                    married with suitable match. Not only she would  
                    be   sacrificing   her   future   prospect   of   getting  
                    married   and   having   family   life,   but   also   would  
                    invite   the   wrath   of   being   ostracized   and   outcast  
                    from the society she belongs to and also from her  
                    family   circle.     From   the   statement   of   the  
                    prosecutrix,   it   was   revealed   that   the   accused  
                    induced her to a hotel by creating an impression  
                    that his wife was admitted in the hospital and that  
                    he   would   see   her   first   and   then   drop   the  
                    prosecutrix at her residence whereas, in fact, she  
                    was not admitted in the hospital.  On the pretext of  
                    going to Hospital, he took her to a hotel, took her  
                    inside   a   room,   closed   the   door   of   the   room,  
                    threatened her to finish her if she shouted and then  
                    forcibly   ravished   her   sexually.     A   clear   case   of  
                    rape, as defined under Section 375 Clause third of  
                    IPC was found established against the accused...."


(48)             Also in the case of  Bharwada Boginbhai Hirji Bhai Vs.  

State of Gujarat  reported in  1983 (CRI) GJX 0252 SC:  AIR 1983  

SC 7453 (1)  it was observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that in 

the   Indian   setting,   refusal   to   act   on   the   testimony   of   a   victim   of 

sexual assault in the absence of corroboration as a rule, is adding 

insult to injury.   Why should the evidence of the girl or the woman 

who complaints of rape or sexual molestation be viewed with doubt, 

disbelief   or   suspicion?     To   do   so   is   to   justify   charge   of   male 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                        Page No. 41
 chauvinism in a male dominated society.  
(49)             Applying the settled principles of law to the facts of the 

present   case,   at   the   very  Outset  I   may   observe   that   there   is   no 

previous history of dispute between the family of the prosecutrix and 

the accused at any point of time and there is no reason for his false 

implication.  
(50)             Secondly  at   the   time   of   the   incident   the   age   of   the 

prosecutrix   'P'   was   about  12   years  and   was   studying   in   class   7th 

whereas the accused Surya Bhan was 32 years of age and hence, the 

consent of the prosecutrix, if any, is immaterial.  Even otherwise the 

prosecutrix 'P' has specifically stated that she did not consent and 

forcibly raped by the accused and there is no reason to disbelieve her 

since it is the prosecutrix 'P' herself who had of her own disclosed 

about the incident of her parents.  The mother of the prosecutrix 'P' 

corroborates the testimony of the prosecutrix and has explained that 

when   she   returned   to   her   house,   she   found   the   prosecutrix   in   a 

distorted condition and she (prosecutrix) told her about the incident 

while crying.  This would not have been her condition in case if the 

prosecutrix was a consenting party.  
(51)            Thirdly  it stands established that when the offence took 

place the parents of the prosecutrix 'P' were not at home. While the 

father   of   the   prosecutrix   'P'   namely  Shyam   Narayan   @  Mahender 

who is a Kabari by profession had gone for his work, the mother of 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                    Page No. 42
 the prosecutrix namely Bimla Devi had gone to Tibia College along 

with her youngest child for taking medicines and other children were 

playing in the street.   Taking advantage of the situation the accused 

committed   rape   upon   the   prosecutrix.     The   testimony   of   the 

prosecutrix 'P' in this regard is very categorical.  In her first statement 

made by the police and also thereafter made to the Ld. MM under 

Section 164 Cr.P.C. which proceedings are Ex.PX3 (collectively) and 

also in her deposition before this Court she is very categorical.   In 

her   testimony   before   this   Court   she   has   made  specific  allegations 

against the accused.   She has also explained that even on a earlier 

occasion the accused had misbehaved with her and teased her after 

which she had informed her mother of the incident but unfortunately 

it is the prosecutrix herself who was asked to maintain distance from 

the   accused   and   the   accused   was   never   confronted.     The   relevant 

portion of her testimony is as under:
St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                    Page No. 43
                                 On   04.04.2012   I   along   with   my   two  
                     brothers had gone to our schools in the morning  
                     time at about 7 AM.  In the afternoon at about 1  
                     PM I along with my brothers returned back to our  
                     house.   I was having the key of the house and I  
                     opened the same and myself and my brothers take  
                     our   lunch   which   was   already   prepared   by   my  
                     mother.  At that time my mother, my younger sister  
                     and my father were not present.  My both brothers  
                     went in the gali and they were playing there and I  
                     was   alone   in  our   house.    At   about   2­2:30  PM  
                     Surya Bhan came to his room and he called me  
                     in   the  staircase and thereafter he caught hold  
                     me   by   my   hands   and   took   me   to   his   room  
                     forcibly and he forced me to lie on his bed and  
                     he   removed   my  salwar   and  underwear  and  he  
                     also removed his wearing towel and underwear  
                     and   thereafter   he   committed   rape   upon   me.                      Thereafter   I   returned   back   to   our   house   after  
                     wearing   my   clothes.     At   about   4­4:30   PM   my  
                     mother   returned   back   to   our   house   and   I   told  
                     about the above said incident to my mother about  
                     the   commission   of   rape   committed   by   accused  
                     Surya   Bhan.     My   father   returned   back   to   our  
                     house at  about 10 PM.   My mother and myself  
                     told about the incident to my father.  On the next  
                     day on 05.04.2012 at about 12 noon I along with  
                     my   parents   went   to   the   police   post   of   police  
                     Station Keshavpuram.   Police inquired about the  
                     facts   from   me   and   I   told   all   the   facts   to   them.  
                     Police   recorded   my   statement   vide   already  EX  
                     PW 13/A and I put my signatures at point A and  
                     my mother put her thumb impressions at point B  


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                             Page No. 44
                      and my father also put his signatures at point C.                       Accused   Surya   Bhan   misbehaved   with   me  
                     earlier   also   on   one   occasion.    I   was   taken   to  
                     BJRM   hospital   for   medical   checkup   but   my  
                     internal examination could not be done because I  
                     was scared.   Thereafter we returned back to the  
                     police chowki and one NGO officer came there to  
                     counseled me and thereafter I was ready for my  
                     internal   examination.     I   along   with   my   parents  
                     and   ladies  police again went   to  BJRM  hospital  
                     and my medical examination was conducted.  My  
                     underwear and baniyan were also sealed by the  
                     doctor in the hospital......"

(52)             The prosecutrix 'P' has been cross­examined at length and 

she has specifically testified that two­three days before the incident 

when the accused misbehaved with her, she had informed her mother 

about   the   eve­teasing  but   instead   of   scolding   the   accused,   her 

mother had advised her not to meet the accused Surya Bhan.  It is 

evident from the cross­examination of the prosecutrix 'P' that she did 

not offer any resistance nor there were any injury marks on her body. 

Here, I may note that the prosecutrix 'P' has explained that she did 

not raise any alarm because there were nobody present in the house. 

It   is   necessary   to   note   here   that   the   minor   prosecutrix   was   at   a 

vulnerable age and was virtually a child of immature understanding. 

Merely   because   the   prosecutrix   did   not   offer   any  resistance   is   no 

ground   to   disbelieve   her   testimony   or   to   assume   that   she   was   a 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                        Page No. 45
 consenting party (even otherwise, her consent if any was immaterial 

because she was a minor below the age of 16 years i.e. around 12 

years of age). 
(53)             Fourthly  when   the   incriminating   evidence   on   record 

including the DNA Fingerprinting Report (connecting the accused to 

the   offence)   and   the   statement   of   the   prosecutrix   was   put   to   the 

accused in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. he did not admit 

or deny the same and only stated that it was a matter of record.  It is 

this DNA Fingerprinting Report which conclusively establishes that 

the   DNA   Profile   from   the   source   of   Ex.2a(1)   [underwear   of   the 

prosecutrix]; 2h(1) [Micro­slide]; 2h(2) [Micro­slide]; 2h(3) [cotton 

wool swab]; 2i(1) [Micro­slide]; 2i(2) [Micro­slide] & 2i(3) [cotton 

wool   swab]   were   similar   to   the   DNA   Profile   of   exhibit   4   (blood 

sample of accused Surya Bhan).  This connects the accused with the 

offence and no explanation is forthcoming from the accused as to 

how the said exhibits including the vaginal swab of the prosecutrix 

would contain the DNA material of the accused.  The only defence of 

the accused Surya Bhan is that he has been falsely implicated by the 

family   of  the  prosecutrix on account  of  trivial issues and also on 

account of financial issues. According to him, on 4.4.2012 he had 

received messages from the mobile of the father of the prosecutrix on 

which he went to his room and objected to the same but the issue got 

aggravated after which the father of the prosecutrix gave beatings to 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                   Page No. 46
 him and threatened him to implicate in some false case.  The DNA 

Fingerprinting Report falsifies this defence of the accused which on 

the face of it an after thought.  Even otherwise, no father worth the 

name would would falsely implicate his neighbour (with whom he 

has no previous dispute and rather with whom he was having good 

relations) in order to seek revenge, by putting the reputation of his 

minor school going daughter at stake.  
(54)             Lastly the delay, if any, in registration of the FIR has been 

duly explained.  The father of the prosecutrix namely Shyam Narayan 

(PW13) and her mother namely Bimla Devi (PW16) have explained 

that having come to know of the incident which took place with their 

daughter, they became nervous.  The reaction of Shyam Narayan was 

natural   and   probable.     Having   come   to   know   of   the   incident   the 

parents of the prosecutrix 'P' first confronted the accused with the 

incident   and   hence   Shyam   Narayan   gave   him   a   beating.     While 

Shyam Narayan was giving a beating to the accused Surya Bhan, the 

accused ran away.   The parents have explained that feeling extreme 

sense   of   shame   and   humiliation   did   not   inform   the   police 

immediately   and   it   was   next   day   morning   that   they   reported   the 

matter to the police.  It has been proved that the various exhibits i.e. 

underwear of the prosecutrix and her swab were collected (as per 

Medical   Jurisprudence   in   case   if   the   victim   has   not   taken   a   bath 

immediately   then   it   is   possible   to   retrieve   the   stains/   biological 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                   Page No. 47
 material of the accused from the vaginal swab of the victim within 48 

hours) which explains the matching in DNA even after the material 

was collected after 24 hours of the incident.  This being so I hereby 

hold that the delay if any in registration of the FIR is not fatal to the 

prosecution case.
(55)             In view of the above, I hereby hold that the prosecution 

has been able to prove and substantiate the allegations against the 

accused  Surya Bhan @ Uday  of having wrongfully restrained the 

prosecutrix   'P'   in   his   room   and   of   committing   rape   upon   her   for 

which the accused is held guilty of the offence under  Sections 341 

and  376 Indian Penal Code.   However, in so far as the aspect of 

criminal   intimidation   is   concerned,   the   prosecutrix   'P'   in   her 

testimony before this Court is totally silent on this aspect and hence 

the accused Surya Bhan is acquitted of the charge under Section 506 

Indian Penal Code.

FINAL CONCLUSIONS:
(56)   In   the   case   of  Sharad  Birdhichand  Sarda  Vs.   State  of  

Maharastra, AIR 1984 SC 1622, the Apex Court has laid down the 

tests which are pre­requisites before conviction should be recorded, 

which are as under:
(57)             Applying the above principles of law to the present case it 

is evident that the  investigation conducted including the documents 

prepared in the present case have been substantially proved by the 

police   witnesses   including   the   first   and   the   second   investigating 

officers.  On the basis of the evidence on record, the following facts 

stand established:
St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                      Page No. 50
           ➢         That the prosecutrix 'P' thereafter returned back to her 

                    room and at about 4­4:30 PM when her mother returned 

                    back, she narrated the incident to her mother.
          ➢         That the father of the prosecutrix 'P' returned back at 

                    about 10 PM when the prosecutrix her mother told him 

                    about the incident. 
          ➢         That on the next day on 05.04.2012 at about 12 noon the 

                    matter was reported to the police and the case was got 

                    registered   on   the   basis   of   the   statement   of   the 

                    prosecutrix 'P'. 
          ➢         That the prosecutrix 'P' was taken to BJRM Hospital for 

                    her medical examination where initially she refused for 

                    her internal examination but on being counseled by the 

                    NGO   the   prosecutrix   'P'  consented  for  the  same  after 

                    which her internal examination was got conducted and 

                    the   exhibits   were   taken   and   handed   over   to   the 

                    Investigating Officer, which exhibits were later on sent 

                    to FSL for DNA examination.
          ➢         That on 9.4.2012 the accused Surya Bhan @ Uday was 

                    arrested from New Delhi Railway Station and thereafter 

                    his blood samples were collected.
          ➢         That  the   DNA   profile   from   the   source   of   Ex.2a(1) 

                    [underwear   of   the   prosecutrix];   2h(1)   [Micro­slide]; 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                 Page No. 51
                     2h(2)   [Micro­slide];   2h(3)   [cotton   wool   swab];   2i(1) 

                    [Micro­slide]; 2i(2) [Micro­slide] & 2i(3) [cotton wool 

                    swab]   were   found   similar   with   the   DNA   Profile   of 

                    exhibit 4 (blood sample of accused Surya Bhan) which 

                    conclusively connects the accused Surya Bhan with the 

                    offence.
(58)             There are two stages in the criminal prosecution.  The first 

obviously   is   the   commission   of   the   crime   and   the   second   is   the 

investigation conducted regarding the same.  In case the investigation 

is faulty  or  has  not  been proved in evidence at  trial, the question 

which arise is whether it would absolve the liability of the culprit 

who has committed the offence? The answer is obviously in negative, 

since any lapse on the part of the investigation does not negate the 

offence. 
(59)             The prosecution has proved the identity of the accused, the 

manner   in   which   the   offence   has   been   committed,   place   of 

commission of the offence, the investigation including the documents 

prepared,   MLC,   etc.     There   is   nothing   which   could   shatter   the 

veracity   of   the   prosecution   witnesses   or   falsify   the   claim   of   the 

prosecution. All the prosecution witnesses have materially supported 

the prosecution case and the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses 

do not suffer from any infirmity, inconsistency or contradiction and 

are consistent and corroborative.   The evidence of the prosecution 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                  Page No. 52
 witnesses is natural and trustworthy and corroborated by medical & 

forensic evidence and the witness of the prosecution have been able 

to built up a continuous link.  
(60)             In view of the above I hereby hold that the prosecution has 

been   able   to   prove   and   substantiate   the   allegations   against   the 

accused  Surya Bhan @ Uday  of having wrongfully restrained the 

prosecutrix   'P'   in   his   room   and   of   committing   rape   upon   her   for 

which the accused is held guilty of the offence under  Sections 341 

and 376 Indian Penal Code and convict him accordingly.  However, 

in   so   far   as   the   aspect   of   criminal   intimidation   is   concerned,   the 

prosecutrix 'P' in her testimony before this Court is totally silent on 

this   aspect   and   hence  the  accused  Surya Bhan is  acquitted  of  the 

charge under Section 506 Indian Penal Code.
(61)            Be listed for arguments on sentence on 16.1.2013.




                    Convict Surya Bhan @ Uday in Judicial Custody with 

                    Ms. Sadhna Bhatia Advocate/ Amicus Curiae.

ORDER ON SENTENCE:
                    The   case   of   the   prosecution   is   that  the   family   of   the 

prosecutrix 'P' aged about 12 years was residing on second floor of 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                         Page No. 54
 premises No. 851/54, Lekhu Nagar, Tri Nagar, Delhi as tenant which 

premises   belong   to   Rajender   Prashad   Aggarwal   and   the   accused 

Surya   Bhan   @   Uday   was   residing   on   the   top   floor.   The   accused 

Surya Bhan was also working as a labour in the house of Rajender 

Prashad   Aggarwal   on   the   ground   floor   and   was   helping   in   his 

business for the last seven years.  On the date of incident i.e. 4.4.2012 

while the father of the prosecutrix 'P' had gone for his work and all 

others were not at home, the accused Surya Bhan @ Uday taking 

advantage   of   their   absence   called   her   to   his   room   and   thereafter 

forcible committed rape upon her.  In the evening when the mother of 

the minor prosecutrix returned she informed her about the incident 

and the mother in turn informed the father when he returned and it 

was only on the next day that the matter was reported to the police.

                    The prosecutrix 'P' has appeared before this Court and 

made specific allegations against the accused Surya Bhan @ Uday. 

On the basis of the testimonies of the various prosecution witnesses 

particularly the prosecutrix 'P', her father Shyam Narayan, her mother 

Bimla   Devi   and   the   owner   of   the   premises   Rajender   Prashad 

Aggarwal   and   also   on   the   basis   of   the   medical,   forensic   and 

circumstantial evidence on record, this Court has held the accused 

Suya Bhan @ Uday guilty of the offence under Sections 341 and 376 

Indian  Penal  Code  for which he has been accordingly convicted. 

Vide detailed judgment dated 11.1.2013 this Court has held that it 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                 Page No. 55
 stood established that  the  prosecutrix 'P' was  residing at House No. 

851,   Gali   No.   54   (Second   Floor),   Lekhu   Nagar,   Tri   Nagar,   Delhi 

along   with   her   parents   and   two   brothers   on   rent   which   premises 

belong   to   Rajender   Prashad  Aggawal;   that  the  prosecutrix  'P'   was 

aged around 12 years at the time of incident (her date of birth being 

09.06.2000)  and she was studying in class 7th  at Govt. Girls Senior 

Secondary School, Tri Nagar, Narang Colony, Delhi; that the accused 

Surya Bhan @ Uday was also residing on the third floor of the said 

premises and was working as labour of Rajender Prashad Aggarwal 

and was hence known to the family of the prosecutrix previously; that 

on 04.04.2012 the father of the prosecutrix had gone for his work and 

the mother of the prosecutrix had gone to Tibia College along with 

her youngest child for taking medicines; that the prosecutrix 'P' along 

with her two brothers had gone to their school in the morning and in 

the afternoon at about 1:00 PM the prosecutrix 'P' along with her 

brothers returned back to their house; that both the brothers of the 

prosecutrix 'P' went in the gali to play and the prosecutrix left alone 

in her house; that at about 2­2:30 PM the accused Surya Bhan came 

to the room of the prosecutrix 'P' and called her in the staircase after 

which he caught hold her by her hands and took her to his room 

forcibly where he committed rape on the minor prosecutrix 'P'; that 

the prosecutrix 'P' thereafter returned back to her room and at about 

4­4:30 PM when her mother returned back, she narrated the incident 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram               Page No. 56
 to her mother; that the father of the prosecutrix 'P' returned back at 

about 10 PM when the prosecutrix her mother told him about the 

incident; that  on the next day on 05.04.2012 at about 12 noon the 

matter was reported to the police and the case was got registered on 

the basis of the statement of the prosecutrix 'P'; that the prosecutrix 

'P' was taken to BJRM Hospital for her medical examination where 

initially   she   refused   for   her   internal   examination   but   on   being 

counseled   by the  NGO the prosecutrix 'P' consented for the same 

after   which   her   internal   examination   was   got   conducted   and   the 

exhibits   were   taken   and   handed   over   to   the   Investigating   Officer, 

which exhibits were later on sent to FSL for DNA examination; that 

on 9.4.2012 the accused Surya Bhan @ Uday was arrested from New 

Delhi   Railway   Station   and   thereafter   his   blood   samples   were 

collected;   that   the   DNA   profile   from   the   source   of   Ex.2a(1) 

[underwear of the prosecutrix]; 2h(1) [Micro­slide]; 2h(2) [Micro­

slide]; 2h(3) [cotton wool swab]; 2i(1) [Micro­slide]; 2i(2) [Micro­

slide] & 2i(3) [cotton wool swab] were found similar with the DNA 

Profile  of  exhibit  4  (blood sample of  accused Surya Bhan) which 

conclusively connects the accused Surya Bhan with the offence.  

                    In view of the above it has been held that the prosecution 

has been able to prove and substantiate the allegations against the 

accused   Surya  Bhan   @   Uday  of   having  wrongfully  restrained   the 

prosecutrix   'P'   in   his   room   and   of   committing   rape   upon   her   for 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                  Page No. 57
 which the accused has been held guilty of the offence under Sections 

341 and 376 Indian Penal Code.  However, in so far as the aspect of 

criminal   intimidation   is   concerned,   the   prosecutrix   'P'   in   her 

testimony before this Court was totally silent on this aspect and hence 

the   accused   Surya   Bhan   has   been   acquitted   of   the   charge   under 

Section 506 Indian Penal Code.
                    Heard arguments on the point of sentence.  The convict 

Surya Bhan @ Uday is stated to be aged about 30 years having a 

family comprising of four elder brothers and three sisters.  He is 12 th 

class pass and is a labour by profession.   The Ld. Amicus Curiae 

appearing on behalf of the convict has vehemently argued that the 

convict   is   a   first   time   offender   and   is   not   involved   in   any   other 

criminal case.  She requests that keeping in view the young age of the 

convict a lenient view be taken against him.  
                    On the other hand, the Ld. Addl. Public Prosecutor has 

prayed for a stern view against the convict keeping in view the nature 

of   allegations   involved   and   also   in   view   of   the   fact   that   the 

prosecutrix 'P' is a minor aged about 12 years.  He has argued that the 

convict deserves no leniency.  
                    I have considered the submissions made before me.  The 

Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   has   in   the   judgment   of  State   of   Andhra  

Pradesh Vs. Gangula Satya Murthy  reported in  JT 1996 (10) SC  

550, observed as under:
St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                      Page No. 58
                   "Courts are expected to show great responsibility  
                  while trying an accused on charges of rape.  They  
                  must deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity.."

                    In   the   case   of  Shri   Bodhisattwa   Gautam   Vs.   Miss  

Subhra   Chakraborty  reported   in  AIR   1996   SC   922,  the   Hon'ble 

Apex Court observed that:­

                  "Rape destroys the  entire psychology of a woman  
                  and pushes her into deep emotional crisis. It is a  
                  crime   against   basic   human   rights,   and   is   also  
                  violative   of   the   victim's   most   cherished   of   the  
                  Fundamental   Rights,   namely,   the   Right   to   Life  
                  contained in Article 21 of the Constitution of India,  
                  1950 (in short the 'Constitution'). The Courts are,  
                  therefore,   expected   to   deal   with   cases   of   sexual  
                  crime against women with utmost sensitivity. Such  
                  cases need to be dealt with sternly and severely. A  
                  socially   sensitized   judge,   in   our   opinion,   is   a  
                  better statutory armour in cases of crime against  
                  women   than   long   clauses   of   penal   provisions,  
                  containing complex exceptions and provisions."

                    It has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the 

case reported in AIR 2000 Supreme Court 1470 that:


                    It has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that it is 

necessary for the court to keep in mind that the object should be to 

protect the society and to deter the criminal in achieving the avowed 

object   to   law   by   imposing   appropriate   sentence.     The   Courts   are 

expected   to   operate   the   sentencing   system   so   as   to   impose   such 

sentence which reflects the conscience of the society and sentencing 

process has to be stern where it should be.   (Ref:  Siddarama and  

Ors. Vs. State of Karnataka reported in 2006 IV AD (Crl.) SC 78).

                    Of late instances of young girls of impressionable age 

being sexually exploited are on a rise and this, I may observe, is a 

matter of national concern.  The primary obligation of the Courts is 

to ensure that minors are protected from all kind of exploitations. 

The prosecutrix 'P' was aged 12 years at the time of the incident and 

the convict Surya Bhan @ Uday was residing on the top floor of the 

premises.     The  convict   taking  advantage  of   the  tender  age of  the 

prosecutrix,   her   immature   understanding   and   absence   of   family 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                    Page No. 60
 members   of   the   prosecutrix   'P'   committed   rape   upon   the   minor 

prosecutrix 'P'. What the convict has done with the minor prosecutrix 

'P' is unpardonable and under these circumstances, no leniency can 

be shown to the convict.  I hereby award the following sentences to 

the convict Surya Bhan @ Uday:
1.      For   the   offence   under  Section   341   Indian   Penal   Code  the 

        convict is sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of 

        One Month.  
2.      For   the   offence   under  Section   376   Indian   Penal   Code  the 

        convict is sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of 

        Ten Years  and fine to the tune of  Rs.10,000/­.   In default of 

        payment   of   fine   the   convict   shall   further   undergo  Simple 

        Imprisonment for a period of One Month. 
                    Both the sentences shall run concurrently. Benefit of 

Section  428  Code of  Criminal  Procedure shall  be given  to the 

convict for the period already undergone by him during the trial, 

as per rules.  
                    Coming   now   to   the   aspect   of  compensation   to   the 

victim, I may observe that rape of a minor not only affects her alone 

but such an incident leaves a devastating impact on her entire family 

who equally suffer in silence. The victim at the time of the incident 

was hardly aged 12 years.  It is cases like these which the Ministry of 

St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                Page No. 61
 Women   and   Child   development   needs   to   target   for  Restorative  

Justice  so that necessary support is provided to the victim.     The 

Hon'ble Apex Court has time and again observed that the subordinate 

Courts trying the offences of sexual assault have the jurisdiction to 

award the compensation to the victims being an offence against the 

basic human right and violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of 

India.     It   has   been   so   observed   by  Hon'ble   Mr.   Justice   S.   Saghir 

Ahmed   and   Justice   Kuldip   Singh  (Ref:  Bodhisattwa   Gautam   Vs.  

Subhra   Chakraborty  reported   in  AIR   1996   SC   922)  that   the 

jurisdiction to pay compensation (interim and final) has to be treated 

to   be   a   part   of   the   over   all   jurisdiction   of   the   Courts   trying   the 

offences of rape which is an offence against basic human rights as 

also the Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty and Life.  

                    Therefore   in   order   to   provide  Restorative   and  

Compensatory Justice  to the victim who requires medical attention 

and   rehabilitation,   I   hereby   direct   the   GNCT   of   Delhi   through 

Principal Secretary (Home) to grant a compensation to the tune of 

Rs.1,00,000/­ (Rs. One Lac) to the victim 'P' daughter of Sh. Shyam  

Narayan @ Mahender, R/o 851, Gali No.54, Lekhu Nagar, Tri Nagar,  

Delhi which amount shall be used for her welfare and rehabilitation 

(including her studies) under the supervision of Welfare Officer so 

nominated   by   the   Government   of   NCT   of   Delhi,   Department   of 


St. Vs. Surya Bhan @ Uday, FIR No. 85/12, PS Keshav Puram                        Page No. 62
 Women   and   Child   Development   [Ref.:  Hari   Kishan   &   State   of  

Haryana Vs. Sukhbir Singh & Ors. reported in AIR 1988 SC 2127 

and Bodhisattwa Gautam Vs. Subhra Chakraborty reported in AIR  

1996 SC 922].  
                    A copy of this order be sent to the Principal Secretary 

(Home),   GNCT   of   Delhi;  Chief   Secretary,   GNCT   of   Delhi; 

Principal   Secretary   (Social   Welfare),   GNCT   of   Delhi  and 

Director,   Department   of   Social   Welfare   (Women   and   Child 

Development), GNCT of Delhi for information and necessary action 

under intimation to this Court.
                    The convict is informed that he has a right to prefer an 

appeal against this judgment.  He has been apprised that in case he 

cannot afford to engage an advocate, he can approach the Legal Aid 

Cell, functioning in Tihar Jail or write to the Secretary, Delhi High 

Court  Legal Services Committee, 34­37, Lawyers Chamber Block, 

High Court of Delhi, New Delhi.
                    Copy of the judgment and order on sentence be given to 

the convict free of costs and another be attached along with his jail 

warrants.
                    File be consigned to Record Room.

