1.         The   accused    has   been    facing    trial   for   having
committed offences punishable u/s 376/506 IPC.
2.         According   to   the   case   of   the   prosecution,     the
prosecutrix herein after referred to as D (her real name has been
withheld in order to protect her identity) aged 15 years was
residing alongwith her family members at RZ-1171, Gali NO.5,
Main Sagarpur, Delhi. On 25.11.2011 at about 4.30 pm, when she
was returning home from her tuition classes, accused Satish,
whom she knew already, took her to his home to introduce her to
his mother. However, there was nobody present in his house at




SC No.103/13                                                Page 1 of 16
 that time. Accused took her inside a room, closed the door and
open the zip of her jacket. When she resisted, he gagged her
mouth with one hand , laid her down, opened the button of her
jeans and raped her. When the prosecutrix lifted a knife from the
kitchen, which was inside the room itself, to resist the action of the
accused, he snatched it from her as a result of which he suffered
injuries on the thumb of his right hand and started bleeding.
Prosecutrix became nervous and quietly returned home. However,
the accused threatened her that in case, she told anybody about
what had happened to her it would not be good for her. On
account of fear of the accused, the prosecutrix did not mention
anything to anybody at her home. On 27/11/2011, when the
mother of the prosecutrix realised that the prosecutrix has been
very quiet and not behaving normally, she asked her the reason
upon which the prosecutrix disclosed the entire incident to her.
3.          The mother of the      prosecutrix, thereafter, took the
prosecutrix to Police Station where the statement of the
prosecutrix was recorded on the basis of which, FIR was registered
u/s 376/506 IPC. SI Kusum Lata alongwith lady constable Manju
took prosecutrix and her mother to DDU Hospital where the
prosecutrix was got medically examined. The exhibits handed over
by the doctor were seized. Thereafter the prosecutrix was got
counseled by W ASI Margrat of Women Help Line, Nanak Pura.
Accused Satish came to be arrested on the same day from his
residence. Accused is stated to have made a confessional
statement admitting his guilt. He was got medically examined
from DDU Hospital and the exhibits given to the IO by the doctor
were seized. Statement of the prosecutrix u/s 164 Cr.P.C. was got




SC No.103/13                                             Page 2 of 16
 recorded and she was then lodged in Nirmal Chhaya. Statement of
the witnesses were recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Record regarding the
age of the prosecutrix from Sarvodya Kanya Vidhyalay Sagarpur,
where she was studying, was obtained. Exhibits were sent to the
FSL, Rohini for forensic examination and DNA finder printing. After
the completion of the investigation, charge sheet was laid before
the concerned Magistrate who then committed the case to the
Court of Sessions.
4.          Upon committal of the case to the court of Sessions,
accused   was   charged    for   having   committed   the   offences
punishable u/s 376 IPC and u/s 506 IPC. The accused pleaded not
guilty to the aforesaid charges and hence trial was held.
5.          The prosecution has examined 16 witnesses to prove
charges against the accused. Ld. APP also tendered in evidence
DNA finger printing report dated 29.1.2013 as Ex. P-X. The
accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. on 13.3.2013 wherein he
denied all the incriminating facts and circumstances put to him
and claimed innocence. The accused also examined two witnesses
in his defence to show that he was not present in his house at the
time and on the date when the offence is alleged to have taken
place.
6.          I have heard ld. APP for the State, ld. Counsel for
accused and have perused the entire documentary as well as oral
evidence on record.
7.          Ld. APP submits that the prosecutrix has very clearly




SC No.103/13                                           Page 3 of 16
 disclosed the circumstances in which she was raped by the
accused at his home on 25.11.2011 and nothing has come on
record   which   would    make   her     testimony   unreliable   and
unbelievable. She further submits that as per the DNA report
Ex.PX, DNA isolated from the semen stains found on the
underwear of the prosecutrix, matched with the DNA isolated from
the blood sample of the accused and, therefore, there does not
remain any iota of doubt regarding the complicity of the accused
in the offence for which he has been charged.
8.          On the other hand, ld. Counsel for the accused
submitted that the accused has been falsely implicated in this
case and is innocent. It is submitted that infact, the prosecutrix,
liked the accused and wanted to marry him and when he showed
his disinclination towards the prosecutrix, this false case was
slapped against him. It is further submitted that no reliance can be
placed upon the DNA report Ex. PX as apparently there has been
tampering of the exhibits in the police station. The ld. Counsel
submitted that there were in all five sealed pullindas in the
Malkhana, as per the case of the prosecution itself, four containing
samples collected at the time of medical examination of the
prosecutrix and one contained the blood sample of the accused.
However, only four pullindas have been sent to the FSL and that
too   without    sample   seal   which    is   manifest    from   the
acknowledgment obtained from the FSL Ex. PW15/D. According to
him, it is further evident from the DNA report itself that the
pullindas containing the sample of pubic hairs of the prosecutrix
was not received there and DNA could not be isolated from the
brazerie of the prosecutrix, as it was having fungal growth. He




SC No.103/13                                              Page 4 of 16
 submits that when brazerie of the prosecutrix has fungal growth, it
implies that her underwear which was sent alongwith the brazerie
to the FSL would also have contained fungal growth and,
therefore,   DNA isolation not possible. The ld. Counsel further
submits that as per the observations of the doctor, who conducted
medical examination of the prosecutrix, on the MLC Ex. PW16/A,
she was still mensurating at that time and the mensuration had
commenced 3 or 4 days ago. It is submitted that the medical
examination of the prosecutrix was conducted on 27.11.2011,
meaning thereby that she had started mensurating since 23rd or
24th Nov., 2011 and hence she could in no case have been raped
on 25.11.2011 as intercourse is not possible during mensuration.
The ld. Counsel also argued that the school record regarding age
of the prosecutrix does not in fact pertain to the prosecutrix as the
name of the mother of the child mentioned therein is Sompali
whereas the name of the mother of the prosecutrix is Somwati. He
submits that there is no reliable evidence on record to show that
prosecutrix was less than 16 years of age on the date of
commission of offence.
9.           In cases involving the offence of rape, the testimony of
prosecutrix is the most vital and material piece of evidence. Her
statement if found to be worthy of credence and reliable, requires
no corroboration and court may convict the accused on her sole
testimony. A prosecutrix of sex offence cannot be put on par with
an accomplice. She is in fact a victim of crime. The Evidence Act
nowhere says that her evidence cannot be accepted unless it is
corroborated in material particulars.     She is undoubtable and
competent witness under section 118 and her evidence must




SC No.103/13                                            Page 5 of 16
 receive the same weight as is attached to an injured in cases of
physical violence.    The same degree of care and caution must
attach in the evaluation of her evidence as in the case of an
injured complainant or witness and no more.          In case involving
sexual harassment, molestation etc. the court is duty bound to
deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. Minor contradictions
or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a prosecutrix
should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable
prosecution case.     While evaluating evidence, the court must
remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self respecting
woman would come forward in a court just to make a humiliating
statement against her honour. At the same time, it is also settled
position that if for some reason the court is hesitant to place
implicit reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix, it may look
for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony short of
corroboration required in case of an accomplice. If the court of
facts finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix at its
face value, it may search for evidence, direct or circumstantial,
which would lend assurance to her testimony. (See- State of
Maharashtra vs. Chandraprakash Kewalchand Jain, AIR
1990 SC 658, State of U.P. vs. Pappu @ Yunus and anr., AIR
2005 SC 1248, State of Punjab vs. Gurmit Singh and Ors.,
AIR 1966 SC 1393).
10.         It would also be useful to keep in mind the following
observations of the Supreme Court made in Raju vs. State of
M.P., (2008) 5 SCC 133 :
11.        Keeping in mind the principles laid down in the
aforesaid judgments, let me now proceed to examine the
testimony of the prosecutrix. She has appeared as PW-2 for the
prosecution. She deposed that on 25.11.2011 at about 4.30 pm,
when she was returning from her tuition, accused met her and told
her that his mother was calling her at his house and hence she
accompanied the accused to his house. She further deposed that
she knew the accused as he was the boyfriend of her friend and
was residing in gali No.3. She went to the house of accused but
nobody was present in his house. Accused bolted the door from
inside and removed her jacket and opened the button of her pant.
 She picked up a knife from the kitchen which was inside the room
itself and with this knife accused sustained injuries on his hand.
Thereafter accused committed rape upon her. Accused also
clamped her mouth and warned her not to disclose the incident to
anyone in her house. When accused was asking her to come to his
house as his mother was calling her. When prosecutrix did not
reach home, her mother asked her friends about her and her
friends had told her mother that she had gone with accused. Her
mother came to the house of accused and brought her back. Her
mother asked as to what had happened upon which she narrated
the incident to her mother. On 27.11.2011, she alongwith her
mother went to the Police Station      where police recorded her
statement, which is Ex. PW2/A. Thereafter she was taken to a
hospital for medical examination and from there she was taken to
the Court where her statement was recorded by a Magistrate,
which is Ex. PW2/B. In the cross examination, she reiterated that
she could not raise alarm as accused had clamped her mouth with
his left hand. Accused had sustained injuries in the thumb of right
hand by knife. She did not tell her mother about the incident on
that day out of fear that she would beat her. She admitted that
she had stated in her statement u/s.164 Cr.PC that she liked the
accused and that she wanted to meet him to ask him why he had
committed such wrong act with her. Accused had told her father
on phone that he wanted to marry her but her father replied that
he was in traffic, driving his auto and asked him to call later on.
She also admitted that accused had taken her home on 2 - 3
occasions prior to the date of incident and Poonam had
accompanied her on those occasions. She had met mother, father
& brothers of accused on those occasions. She denied the




SC No.103/13                                          Page 8 of 16
 suggestions regarding false implication of the accused in this case.
12.          Even though it is revealed in the cross examination of
the prosecutrix that she had earlier also accompanied the accused
to his house on 2-3 occasions and had met his mother, father,
brother etc., yet there is nothing to suggest that she had engaged
in sexual intercourse with him on any of those occasions or the
sexual intercourse between the two on the date of incident i.e.
25.11.2011 was with her consent. Her testimony before the court
finds support and corroboration from her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
(Ex. PW2/B). The argument raised on behalf of the accused that
there was no occasion for the accused's mother to call the
prosecutrix and the prosecutrix has fabricated a false story, does
not have any force. It was the trick played by the accused upon
the unsuspecting prosecutrix. She had been to the house of
accused earlier and had met his mother. Thus she fell into the trap
laid by accused by believing his saying that his mother wants to
see her. I do not see anything unusual in the conduct of the
prosecutrix in accompanying the accused to his house. She could
not have presaged that there would be nobody present in his
house and she would be ravished by the accused.
13.          The prosecutrix has deposed that her friends, who
were   her   tuition   mates,   particularly   Anita   had     seen   her
accompanying the accused. On this it was argued by the ld.
Counsel for the accused that neither Anita nor any other friend of
the prosecutrix has been produced as witness by the prosecution
and hence the version given by the prosecutrix does not stand
corroborated. With regards the same, it may be said that the




SC No.103/13                                                 Page 9 of 16
 testimony of prosecutrix, if inspiring confidence and found
trustworthy, does not require any corroboration at all. In the
instant case nothing has come out in the cross examination of the
prosecutrix which would belie her version of the incident. Her
testimony appears to be genuine, credible and trustworthy. She
has fairly admitted that she knew the accused before hand, has
gone to his house earlier also and had met his family members.
She, however, has reiterated again and again that sexual
intercourse between the two on 25.11.2011 was not with her
consent. She could not raise alarm as her mouth was clamped by
the accused with one hand. She had tried hard to offer resistance
and even picked up the knife from kitchen nearby to scare away
the accused but the accused snatched knife also from her hands,
in the process injuring his right hand. The reason for false
implication of the accused in this case, as put forward on his
behalf, is that prosecutrix wanted to marry him but he refused to
marry her. It will be preposterous or ridiculous to accept mere
refusal to marry as a motive for false implication in a rape case. It
is too flimsy a ground or motive for false implication. It may further
be noted that the accused on one hand claims to have refused to
marry the prosecutrix but at the same time questions have been
put in cross examination of the prosecutrix, to which answer has
come as ,"Accused had told my father that he wanted to marry me
but my father replied that he was in traffic and driving the auto
and he asked the accused to call later on." There is no further
cross examination of the prosecutrix on this point. Thus the
accused has himself falsified the defence taken by him by saying
that he too wanted to marry the prosecutrix. Thus the motive for
false implication vanishes in air.
 14.         It is further established from the DNA report Ex. PX
that the accused had committed sexual intercourse with the
prosecutrix. The DNA isolated from the underwear of prosecutrix
matched with the DNA of the accused isolated from his blood
sample. The authenticity of the DNA report has been challenged
on behalf of the accused on two counts. Firstly the pullinda
containing public hair sample of the prosecutrix and two sample
seals have not been sent to FSL and no explanation has been
given for the same either by MHC(M) or by the IO. Secondly, when
one cloth article i.e. brassiere was having fungal growth, the other
cloth article i.e. underwear of the prosecutrix also may have
developed fungal growth making isolation of DNA impossible or
faulty. In my opinion there is nothing on record to suggest that
DNA report is faulty and not reliable. It is evident that the Officer
in FSL Rohini, who examined the exhibits in this case found the
brassiere having fungal growth and thus mentioned so in his
report. Had he observed fungal growth on the underwear of the
prosecutrix also and it would not have been possible to isolate
DNA therefrom, he would have said so and given the report
accordingly. The report was tendered in evidence by the ld. APP
and marked as Ex. PX as it having been prepared by Senior
Scientific Officer, is per se admissible u/s 293 Cr.P.C. It was for the
accused to have got the officer summoned to witness box and
cross examine him in order to show that his report is faulty. Once
the accused accepted the report without any demur and did not
seek permission to cross examine the officer, who prepared the
report, he cannot be heard now to challenge the report. The officer
who prepared it was the best person to depose about the condition




SC No.103/13                                            Page 11 of 16
 of the exhibits received by him and how was he able to isolate the
DNA from the same.
15.         Not sending the fifth pullinda containing the pubic hair
sample of the prosecutrix and the two sample seals appear to be a
mistake on the part of MHC(M) and the IO. However, it does not
affect the credibility of the DNA report for the reasons aforestated.
16.         The report Ex. PW16/A on the MLC of the prosecutrix of
the doctor, who conducted her gynecological examination also
shows that she had been subjected to forcible sexual intercourse.
As per the observations of the doctor, the prosecutrix had
abrasions and nail marks over second and third fingers of right
hand. She had laceration on outer aspect of labia minora (left) and
little amount of blood was seen inside vagina. Hymen was torn.
These injuries are sufficient to conclude that somebody had
committed intercourse with her by force sometime before her
medical examination.
17.         It is true that the prosecutrix was mensurating on the
day when she was medically examined i.e. on 27.11.2011 and it
cannot be disputed that she must have been mensurating on
25.11.2011 also when she is alleged to have been raped by the
accused. However, it cannot be accepted that intercourse is not
possible during mensuration. Neither it is written anywhere in
Medical   jurisprudence   nor   was   the   doctor,   who   medically
examined the prosecutrix, questioned in this regard. It can be said
that vaginal intercourse is not advisable during menstrual periods
as it may cause injuries to inner walls of the vagina and the male




SC No.103/13                                           Page 12 of 16
 partner may contract some infection from the menstrual bleeding,
but to say that it is not possible, is something not contained in any
medico-legal literature.
18.         The mother of the prosecutrix, appearing as PW-3 has
also deposed that on 25.1.2011 when her daughter i.e. the
prosecutrix did not return from tuition classes by 5.30 pm, she
went to the tuition center and came to know that all the children
had left. She enquired from her tuition mates and was told that her
daughter has gone to house of accused. She went to accused's
house and found her daughter outside the room of the accused in
perplexed condition and brought her home.            On that day
prosecutrix did not tell her anything as she was nervous. Next day,
her daughter told her about the incident and on the third day of
the incident, she took prosecutrix to police station. In cross
examination she stated that accused was not present in his house
when she reached there. Brother of accused met her and told her
that accused has gone for his work.
19.         It is thus seen that testimony of PW-3 is in sync with
that of prosecutrix and nothing contrary to case of prosecution has
been elicited from her. Her testimony also demonstrates that
accused had taken the prosecutrix to her house and she recovered
the prosecutrix from the house of the accused, which also falsifies
the defence taken by the accused that no such incident had taken
place and the prosecution case is only a fabricated story. Here I
may note that non examination of the tuition mates of the
prosecutrix, who had seen her going alongwith the accused, is
only a lapse committed by the IO, which cannot be made a ground




SC No.103/13                                           Page 13 of 16
 to disbelieve the testimony of prosecutrix and her mother, which
appears to be credible and reliable.
20.         The accused has examined two witnesses in his
defence to prove that he was present at his place of work and not
in his house around 5 p.m. on 25.11.2011 when he is alleged to
have been committed the offence. However, none of these two
defence witnesses has supported his such claim. DW1 has been
doing the work as a waiter with a caterer and according to him,
the accused also used to accompany him sometime for the job of
waiter. He has deposed on 25.11.2011 also accused has gone to
Punjabi Bagh to work as a waiter. He did not remember whether it
was a marriage party or some other party but has stated that they
left from there residence at about 6.30 p.m. Therefore there is
nothing in his deposition to show that accused was not present in
his house at about 4.30 p.m. to 5 p.m. when he is alleged to have
raped the prosecutrix. DW2 has also deposed that he is doing the
job of service waiter at the party and on 25.11.2011 also he had
gone for the said job to Punjabi Bagh. According to him, he had
gone alone and later on accused alongwith one Sahid Ali also
reached that venue for the job of waiter. In the cross examination
conducted by the Ld. APP, he has deposed that accused alongwith
Sahid Ali has reached the party venue on that day at 7.45 p.m.
Therefore none of DW s has supported the contention of the
accused that he was not present in his house on 25.11.2011 at
about 5 p.m. when the offence is said to have been committed by
him.
21.         Much emphasis was laid by the Ld. Counsel for the




SC No.103/13                                        Page 14 of 16
 accused that the prosecution has failed to prove that the
prosecutrix was less than 16 years of age on the date of incident.
It may be noted here that it is not the case where the contention
of the accused is that sexual intercourse between him and the
prosecutrix was consensual one.     The accused herein contends
that he did not commit intercourse with the prosecutrix on the
date of incident and a false story has been concocted by the
prosecutrix. On the other hand, it has been established by the
prosecution by way of testimony of the prosecutrix corroborated
by the medical evidence on record that the accused had
committed forcible sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix on
25.11.2011.    Therefore when it is proved that the intercourse
between the accused and the prosecutrix was not with the consent
of the prosecutrix, the age of the prosecutrix becomes immaterial.
Even otherwise also, I do not find any anamoly from the record
proved by the prosecution regarding the age of the prosecutrix.
Ex.PW6/C is the certificate of birth issued by the Government of
Union Territory of Delhi regarding the birth of female child to the
parents of the prosecutrix herein. The name of the female child is
not mentioned in the said certificate. However, it is apparent from
the testimony of PW6, the official of Sarvodya Kanya Vidhalaya,
Sagarpur, New Delhi, where the prosecutrix had taken admission
in class-Ist that she was given admission on the basis of said birth
certificate. He has brought original birth certificate alongwith him
at the time of recording of his testimony. Therefore, it cannot be
said that the birth certificate does not belong to the prosecutrix
but to some other girl child of her parents. No such suggestion has
been given to the mother of the prosecutrix, who has appeared as
PW3 and she has not been cross examined at all on this point.
 22.        Therefore   it   is   established   from   the   said   birth
certificate of the prosecutrix that she was born on 26.11.1996
which means that she was less than 16 years of age on the date
when she was raped by the accused.
23.        Keeping in view the evidence led by the parties
discussed herein-above, I am of the opinion that the prosecution
has successful in proving the guilt of the accused. The accused is
therefore convicted of having committed the offence punishable
u/s.376 IPC and u/s.506 IPC.
