              The facts in brief of the prosecution case are
that in the intervening night of 09/10.05.2011 at about 12
- 12:30 midnight, one Prashant, here in after referred to as
the accused, kidnapped one ----X----, here in after referred
to as the prosecutrix, out of her lawful guardianship from
-----------------------------------------X1--------------------------------------
by force and with intent to solemnize marriage with her.
The accused made the prosecutrix to sit in a white
colour vehicle.            His    brother Rajesh and sister in law

SC No.160/13                 State vs. Prashant                Page 1 of 31
 Veena were also present there. The accused made her to
drink tea and after drinking the same, she felt intoxicated
and when she regained her consciousness she found
herself inside a room in a village. The accused used to beat
her everyday and he used to misbehave and rape her and
used to pressurize her for marriage. ----------Y--------------,
father of the prosecutrix reported the matter to police but
the prosecutrix could not be searched despite of efforts
made by the police. After a week the accused dropped the
prosecutrix at P.S. Father of the prosecutrix submitted a
detailed complaint u/s 156 (3) of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, here in after referred to as the Code on the
basis of which FIR of present case No.225/11 at PS Khajuri
Khas was recorded. Father of the prosecutrix was informed
about reaching of the prosecutrix at the P.S. On the
pointing out of the complainant, the accused and Rajesh
were arrested and arrest memo Ex.PW4/A and Ex.PW4/C
were   prepared.     Their   personal       search   memo     were
conducted vide memo Ex.PW4/B and Ex.PW4/D and their
disclosure     statements    Ex.PW4/D       and   Ex.PW4/E    were
recorded. Site plan Ex.PW5/A was prepared. Both the
accused were sent to GTB Hospital where accused
Prashant was medically examined. His samples were taken
by the doctor and handed over to Ct. Jai Kishan who took

SC No.160/13           State vs. Prashant            Page 2 of 31
 him to the hospital for medical examination. Samples were
seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW8/A. The prosecutrix was
also taken to GTB Hospital where she was medically
examined. Doctor, who examined her, also took her
samples. Doctor observed that her hymen was found torn.
Samples were initially deposited in the police malkhana
and subsequently, these were sent to FSL and later on,
reports from FSL were obtained. The prosecutrix was also
produced before Ld. M.M. and her statement u/s 164 of the
Code was recorded on 30.09.2011. I.O. visited the place of
occurrence and prepared site plan. I.O. also obtained date
of birth record of the accused and the prosecutrix. After
completion of investigation police filed a charge sheet
against the accused for his trial for the offences punishable
u/s 366/368/328/376/34 IPC. Names of the accused Rajesh
and Veena both R/o H.No. A 593, Gali No.13, Part III, Sonia
Vihar, Delhi were mentioned in column No.12 of the charge
sheet.
2.         Ld. M.M. took cognizance against the accused
and not against Rajesh and Veena. Ld. Metropolitan
Magistrate after supplying of copies of charge sheet and
documents to the accused committed this case to the
court of sessions and the case was assigned to himself by

SC No.160/13          State vs. Prashant       Page 3 of 31
 Ld. District Judge & Addl. Sessions Judge (I/C), North East
District, Delhi.
3.          The court vide order dated 10.01.2012 opined
that prima facie case for framing of charge against        the
accused for the offences punishable u/s 366/328/376 IPC
was made out. Therefore, charge against the accused for
his trial for the said offences was framed and read over to
him. The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
4.          The prosecution, in order to prove its case
examined the prosecutrix as PW1; ----------Y---------------,
father of prosecutrix as PW2; ----------Z---------, mother of
prosecutrix as PW3; Ct. Sumit as PW4; and ASI Gopal Dass
as PW5.
5.          Vide   order   No.20/372-512/F.3.(4)/ASJ/01/2013
dated 04.01.2013, on constitution of Special Fast Track
Courts for trial of sexual offences, Hon'ble District &
Sessions Judge, transferred this case to this court.
6.          The prosecution further examined W/Ct. Pinki as
PW6; Dr. Ritu Khatuja, Senior Resident, GTB Hospital as
PW7; ASI Santosh as PW8; Dr. Sangeeta, CMO, GTB

SC No.160/13          State vs. Prashant        Page 4 of 31
 Hospital as PW9; ASI Tejwati as PW10; and Smt. Bimla Rani
as PW11.
7.         After closing of prosecution evidence statement
of the accused u/s 313 of the Code was recorded. All the
material and incriminating evidence was put to him. The
accused admitted that the prosecutrix knew him as he
resided in her neighbourhood and that PW2, father of
prosecutrix was running a grocery store at his house and
that he was taken to GTB hospital where he was medically
examined vide MLC Ex.PW9/A and that his samples were
taken and those were sent to FSL and results Ex.PW10/C
and Ex.PW10/D were obtained. He either denied rest of the
evidence or expressed his ignorance about the same. The
accused pleaded that he was falsely implicated in the
present case as father of the prosecutrix, who was working
as a property dealer, wanted to buy his house at a lower
price and his father had refused to sale his house. He
opted to lead evidence in his defence.
8.         The accused, in his defence, examined Sh.
Bunty s/o Sh. Ved Prakash as DW1 and Smt. Rajni w/o Late
Sh. Pappu Saxena as DW2.
 9.         After closing of evidence by both the parties, I
have heard arguments addressed by Ld. Additional Public
Prosecutor for the State and Ld. Defence Counsel for the
accused and perused file including written arguments.
10.        In order to prove its case that the accused
committed an offence of kidnapping, abducting or inducing
women to compel marriage, etc. punishable u/s 366 IPC,
prosecution has to prove firstly that the prosecutrix was
either   kidnapped    or   abducted    by   the   accused    and
secondly, the prosecutrix was abducted and kidnapped
with the intention that the prosecutrix may be compelled
or knowing it to be likely that she will be compelled to
marry any person against her will or in order that she may
be forced to do illicit intercourse.
11.        In order to prove its case that the accused
committed an offence of causing hurt by means of poisons
etc., punishable u/s 328 IPC, prosecution has to prove
firstly, that the accused administered either poison or
stupefying, intoxicating or unwholesome drug in the tea of
the prosecutrix; and secondly, that tea was offered to the
prosecutrix with the intention to commit or to facilitate the
commission of an offence or knowingly it to be likely that

SC No.160/13           State vs. Prashant         Page 6 of 31
 he will thereby cause hurt to the prosecutrix.
12.        In order to prove its case against the accused
for the offence of rape punishable u/s 376 IPC, prosecution
has to prove firstly, that sexual intercourse was committed
with the prosecutrix by the accused; and secondly, that
sexual intercourse was committed with her forcibly against
her will and without her consent.
Age of the Prosecutrix
13.        PW1, the prosecutrix on this aspect deposed
that at the time of incident she was studying in 9th class.
She told her age as 16 years on the date of recording his
statement, i.e. on 27.02.2012. She also stated that her
date of birth was 01.04.1995. That was also recorded in
her school where she was studying. When her statement
u/s 161 of the Code was recorded on 13.09.2011 she also
told her age as 16 years. The testimonies of parents of the
prosecutrix i.e. PW2 and PW3 are silent about the date of
birth of the prosecutrix. PW5 on this aspect deposed that
on 12.05.2011 he was posted at PS Khajuri Khas as ASI. On
that day duty officer entrusted him DD No.41 B regarding
missing of girl -----X----- aged about 16 years. PW7 Dr. Ritu
Khatuja on this aspect deposed that on 11.08.2011, she

SC No.160/13          State vs. Prashant         Page 7 of 31
 examined a patient ------X------ d/o --------Y------ aged about
16 years. PW10 on this aspect deposed that the date of
birth of the prosecutrix was certified from the school vide
document Ex.PW10/E. On perusal of Ex.PW10/E, I find that
this is the certificate dated 30.09.2011 issued by Head of
School, GGSSS, Khajuri Khas, Delhi-94. It has been
mentioned in the certificate that date of birth of ------X-----
d/o -------Y------ was 01.04.1995 and according to school
record she was admitted in the school in 6th class. The
entry of admission and withdrawal register and application
form of the prosecutrix have been proved as Ex.PW11/A
and Ex.PW11/B. In this document the date of birth of the
prosecutrix has been mentioned as 01.04.1995. There is no
cross examination of this witness by Ld. Defence Counsel
regarding the age or date of birth. The date of incident is
09.05.2011. On calculation, the age of the prosecutrix, on
the date of incident, comes to 16 years 1 month and 8
days. Consequently, it is held that the prosecutrix was
minor on the date of incident.
Kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her
marriage, etc.

14.        PW1, the prosecutrix on this aspect deposed


SC No.160/13          State vs. Prashant         Page 8 of 31
 that she knew the accused Prashant present in the court
as he used to reside in her street. She was studying in 9th
class when the incident took place. In the intervening night
of 9th & 10th May, 2011 at around 12/12:30 midnight she
went to toilet of her house situated on the roof. Accused
Prashant was there and he put a knife against her neck. He
threatened her to accompany him downstairs failing which
he would kill her and her family members. Accused brought
her on the main road. Brother and sister in law of accused
namely Rajesh and Veena were also present there. All of
them put her inside that vehicle by force. Accused Rajesh
and Veena then left that place. The accused sat on the rear
seat with her and the driver drove the vehicle and at some
distance the accused gave her tea in a cup which was with
him in a flask. She took that tea and as soon as she
finished the tea she became unconscious. When she
regained consciousness, she found herself in a room.
Accused used to beat her saying that he wanted to get
marry with her but she used to refuse and turn down his
proposal. Accused indulged in sexual intercourse with her
on every night during that period. Finally the accused
brought her to PS Khajuri Khas on 14.05.2011. She also
made her statement before Magistrate and stated all facts
on oath. She identified her signature on her statement

SC No.160/13         State vs. Prashant        Page 9 of 31
 Ex.PW1/A. In cross examination she explained that toilet
was situated on the top floor and that was the only toilet
existing on the second floor. The accused when brought
her downstairs he brought her from inside her house. At
that point of time lights of her house were   switched off
and the main door on the ground floor was unbolted by the
accused. Rest of family members in her house were
sleeping.
15.         PW2 on this aspect deposed that he was
running a grocery store at ground floor of his house. He
was having two     sons and one daughter. Name of his
daughter is ------X-----. At the time of incident she was
studying in 9th Class. On the intervening night of 9th and
10th May, 2011 all the family members were sleeping. He
awoke in the night and saw that main gate was opened
and his daughter ------X----- was missing. He searched his
daughter but she could not be traced. In the morning she
went to PS Khajuri where SI Gopal Dass met him. He
handed over complaint regarding missing of his daughter
but ASI Gopal Dass did not hand over the receipt of his
complaint to him and he assured him that he would be
searching and trace out his daughter. He visited PS 3-4
days but police did not pay any attention on his complaint.
 On 14.05.2011 ASI Gopal Dass called on mobile phone of
his brother and asked him to reach at PS Khajuri Khas at
the earliest. They arrived at PS Khajuri Khas and found that
accused present in the court and his daughter were sitting
near ASI Gopal Dass. His daughter told him that in the
intervening night of 9th and 10th May, 2011 at about
12-12:30 a.m. she went for urination on the roof where the
toilet was situated where Prashant met her and put knife
on her neck and asked her to accompany him after
opening the gate. Accused took her to 20 feet road which
was situated at a distance of 50 feet from their house
where one car was parked. Rajesh, elder brother of
accused and his wife Veena were present there and all the
three persons made her to sit inside the car. Accused
pressurized his daughter to marry with him and on refusal
accused gave beating to his daughter and also committed
rape on her without her consent and against her wishes on
each night.
16.        PW3 on this aspect deposed that she was
having two sons and one daughter namely -----X-------. On
intervening night of 9th and 10th May, 2011, her daughter
-----X------- went missing from her house. On that night her
husband woke up for urination and he did not find ---X---
 in the room. They searched for their daughter in the
neighbourhood and from their relatives and on the next
morning her husband went to PS and lodged a missing
report. On 14.05.2011 a telephone call was received at PS
Khajuri Khas. She alongwith her husband and relatives
went at PS where her daughter was found sitting with
accused present in the court. On seeing them her daughter
started weeping     and     when   they    returned   back   her
daughter told her that accused Prashant had kidnapped
her forcibly in a village after giving some intoxicant and
committed rape upon her and pressurized her to get marry
with him.
17.         It has been argued by Ld. Defence Counsel that
testimonies of prosecution witnesses are not reliable as
they have deposed inconsistently and there are many
contradictions in their statements.
18.         Ld.   Defence   Counsel    argued    that   in   the
complaint Ex.PW2/A, it has been mentioned that the
prosecutrix was made to eat intoxicated material. In the
statement given to Ld. M.M., it has been mentioned that
she was given tea and after taking the tea she became
unconscious. In the court the prosecutrix, as PW1 also

SC No.160/13          State vs. Prashant          Page 12 of 31
 stated that she was made to drink tea. It has been further
argued by Ld. Defence Counsel that in the statement in the
court PW1, deposed that the accused Prashant put a knife
against her neck and he threatened her to accompany him
downstairs. In the statement Ex.PW2/A made to the Ld.
M.M., she stated that she silently followed her. Besides, in
the statement made to the police PW1 deposed that
accused indulged in sexual intercourse with her every
night during the period from the date of kidnapping, i.e.
intervening night of 9th & 10th May to 14.05.2011 but in the
statement made to Ld. M.M. Ex.PW2/A, she stated that
accused committed rape on her thrice in five days.
19.           It has also been argued by Ld. Defence Counsel
that prosecution has failed to examine a witness Ms.
Shikha who allegedly produced the victim. On perusal of
PW5, I find that victim Rajni was produced by Ms. Shikha.
He also deposed that on that date a lady Ms. Shikha
produced the victim before the duty officer and told the
duty officer that victim was standing in front of her house
situated in ----------------------------------X1-----------------------------
and she was crying and Ms. Shikha further told him that
when she asked the victim as to why she was crying the
victim     told     her    that     she      had     left    her     house

SC No.160/13                State vs. Prashant              Page 13 of 31
 without telling anyone and she was afraid that her parents
would beat her due to that reason.
20.         On   the   other    hand,    Ld.   Additional   Public
Prosecutor submitted that the minor contradictions are
liable to be ignored in view of the principles of law laid
down by Delhi High Court in State v. Jai Hind, 2012 VI AD
(Delhi) 170 wherein it was held that:
21.         On scrutinizing     the testimonies of prosecution
witnesses, I do not find any contradiction on material point
and the minor contradictions as highlighted above are
liable to be ignored in view of the principles of law laid
down in State v. Jai Hind, (supra), relied on by Ld.
Additional Public Prosecutor for the State.
22.            It has also been argued by Ld. Defence Counsel
that knife which was allegedly used by the accused has not
been recovered and this may provide benefit to the
accused.
23.         On perusal of testimonies of PW1, I find that she
deposed that the accused put a knife on her neck. In cross
examination PW1 admitted that knife which was put by
accused on her neck was not recovered from him in her
presence.
 24.        The testimonies of other witnesses are silent
about the recovery of knife. Although, it has been
established on record that the alleged knife which was put
on the neck of the prosecutrix could not be recovered by
the police yet this would not provide any benefit to the
accused as the testimony of prosecutrix on careful
examination has been found reliable and trustworthy and
same has been supported by other prosecution witnesses.
25.        In view of the above reasons, discussion and
evidence on record I come to the conclusion that the
prosecution has successfully proved all the ingredients of
offence of kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to
compel her marriage, etc. because evidence on record has
established that accused kidnapped a minor girl, the
prosecutrix, from the lawful guardianship of her parents
with intent to compel her to marry with her and when she
refused to marry with him, the accused repeatedly
committed sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix against
her will and without her consent.
Sexual intercourse was committed by the accused with the
prosecutrix

SC No.160/13         State vs. Prashant      Page 16 of 31
 26.        PW1 on this aspect deposed that when she
regained her consciousness she found herself in a room.
Accused Prashant used to beat her and used to pressurize
her to get marry with him and she used to refuse and turn
down his proposal. Accused indulged in sexual intercourse
with her on every night during that period. PW2 and PW3
on this aspect deposed that their daughter on return at
their house told them that the accused used to pressurize
her for marriage and he indulged in sexual intercourse with
her against her will and without her consent.
27.        PW7 proved MLC of prosecutrix as Ex.PW7/A and
she also deposed that on examination hymen of the
patient was found torn. In cross examination, it was put to
the prosecutrix, PW1 that she herself went to the house of
Prashant and that on her asking accused took her for
roaming. She denied the suggestion that no physical
relations were developed with the accused or that he never
committed rape on her or that she made a concocted story
in connivance with her father or that the accused was
falsely implicated as father of the prosecutrix was annoyed
with the accused due to their friendship. Thus, the
suggestion put to the witnesses have indirectly proved that

SC No.160/13         State vs. Prashant         Page 17 of 31
 the prosecutrix was taken by the accused and that the
prosecutrix was having friendly terms with the accused.
PW9 proved MLC of the accused as Ex.PW9/A wherein it
has been mentioned that he was capable to perform sexual
activity.
28.         The testimonies of DW1 and DW2 are regarding
the character of the accused. Their testimonies are silent
about the present occurrence. The detailed testimony of
the prosecution witnesses have already been reproduced
here in above. The same are not being repeated for the
sake of bravity. It would be suffice to mention here that
PW1 on this aspect deposed that accused indulging with
sexual intercourse with her on every night. She also told
that during 10.05.2011 to 14.05.2011 the accused kept her
under threat that if she would raise any hue and cry or
make protest, he would kill her.
29.         The accused in his statement recorded u/s 313
of the Code has denied that he indulged in sexual activity
with the prosecutrix. In cross examination PW2 denied the
suggestion that in his presence his daughter prosecutrix
told the police officials that she was in love with accused
and she wanted to get marry with him. He also denied the

SC No.160/13          State vs. Prashant      Page 18 of 31
 suggestion that his daughter had gone from the house with
her own as a quarrel had taken place between him and his
daughter or that accused was falsely implicated by him
due to inimical relations. In her statement Ex.PW2/A, the
prosecutrix stated that the accused committed rape with
her   thrice   without    her   consent.      There   is   no   cross
examination of the prosecutrix on the point of her consent.
On the basis of the evidence on record and particularly
discussed here in above it is held that the prosecution has
established that the accused committed sexual intercourse
with the prosecutrix repeatedly three times against her will
and without her consent.
Causing hurt by means of poison, etc.,
30.        The prosecutrix on this aspect deposed that she
was made to sit in a white colour car which was standing
on the road. Accused Prashant sat on the rear seat where
she was made to sit. The vehicle was driven by the driver
and at some distance accused Prashant gave tea in a cup
which he was carrying in a flask. She took that tea and as
soon as she finished the tea she became unconscious and
when she regained her conscious she found herself in a
room. In cross examination, she stated that during 4-5
days accused used to gave her something intoxicated or

SC No.160/13             State vs. Prashant           Page 19 of 31
 drug whereby she used to get unconscious. There is not
even suggestion to the witness that no such intoxicating or
stupefying or unwholesome drug or substance was given to
the prosecutrix. The testimony of the prosecutrix has
established      that   she   was    administered     something
intoxicated many times, firstly, on the date when she was
kidnapped and subsequently on the date when she was in
confinement of the accused. The evidence has also
established that the prosecutrix used to get unconscious
whenever she used to drink tea or other food/drink and
that intoxicating or unwholesome drug was administered to
the prosecutrix as accused wanted to marry with the
prosecutrix and when she refused to marry him he sexually
assaulted her.
31.        It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Defence
Counsel that there is delay of about 2 ½ months in lodging
the report and that delay is fatal to the prosecution case.
On perusal of the testimony of prosecution witnesses, I find
that PW1 on this aspect deposed that because of the fear
she did not lodge any complaint with the police at PS
Khajuri Khas on 14.05.2011. Her parents brought her to
house and she narrated all the incidents to her parents.
PW2 on this aspect deposed that he handed over the

SC No.160/13            State vs. Prashant          Page 20 of 31
 complaint regarding missing of his daughter to ASI Gopal
Dass but he did not hand over the receipt of the same. On
14.05.2011 when they were called at the P.S., ASI Gopal
Dass told him that if he would initiate any proceeding, he
would falsely implicate him. He asked ASI Gopal Dass to
send her daughter for her medical examination but he
refused to do so and after threatening him, his daughter
was sent with him by ASI Gopal Dass. On 20.05.2011 he
made a complaint to Commissioner of Police for initiating
action against accused persons. He proved his report as
Ex.PW2/A. He also stated that he made a complaint in the
court of Ld. M.M. and Ld. M.M. ordered for registration of
FIR and therefore, her daughter was taken to GTB Hospital
for medical examination. In cross examination he denied
the suggestion that prior to the date of incident he was
having a quarrel and due to that accused was falsely
implicated in this case.
32.        On perusal of complaint Ex.PW2/A, I find that he
has   explained   the    reason    of   making   complaint    on
20.05.2011. I am satisfied with the explanation made in
the complaint Ex.PW2/A and in statements of PW2 and
PW1, the prosecutrix. As the explanation is satisfactory, I
am of the view that delay in lodging the FIR is not fatal to

SC No.160/13            State vs. Prashant        Page 21 of 31
 the prosecution case. Moreover, the delay as pleaded by
Ld. Defence Counsel is not of 2 and 1/2 months but it is
delay of only a week. Complaint is dated 20.05.2011. It
was entered in the office of               Dy. Commissioner on
23.05.2011 and in the office of Additional Commissioner of
Police (Vigilance) on 25.05.2011.
33.           My decision finds support by the principles of
law laid down in case, State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh And
Others, 1996 SCC (Cri) 316 wherein Apex Court observed
that:
 34.         On considering the rival contention of Ld.
Additional Public Prosecutor for the State and Ld. Defence
Counsel and on analyzing the prosecution evidence on
record, I come to the conclusion that prosecution has
proved    its   case   against    the   accused    beyond     any
reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt that the
accused Prashant committed offence of causing hurt by
means of poison, etc., punishable u/s 328 IPC; offence of
Kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her
marriage, etc. punishable u/s 366 IPC; and offence of rape
punishable u/s 376 IPC. The reasons which support my
conclusion are firstly, that the testimony of prosecutrix, as
discussed in detail here in above, on analyzing has been
found consistent, reliable and trustworthy and it is safe to
act upon on her testimony.
35.         My decision finds support by a case Pardeep @
Sonu v. State, 2011 [2] JCC 1031. The Delhi High Court
observed that:
36.          Secondly,     the    prosecution    evidence      has
achieved the standard of proof of proving a case as held in
a case Ashok Narang v. State, 2012 II AD (Delhi) 481,
wherein Delhi High Court has, inter alia, held that
testimony of a single witness in a criminal trial is
acceptable but the evidence must be free of any blemish
or suspicion, must impress the Court as wholly truthful,
and must appear to be natural and so convincing that the
Court has no hesitation in recording a conviction solely on
the basis of the testimony of a single witness. The offence
of rape is a heinous one which carries grave implications
for the accused if convicted. Therefore, the degree of proof
had to be of a high standard and not a mere possibility of
committing the said offence.
37.          Thirdly, Ld. Defence Counsel or the accused has
failed to create any reasonable suspicion or shadow of
doubt in the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses
during the cross examination or by adducing two defence
witnesses.
 38.            Fourthly, the Ld. Defence Counsel by putting
suggestions to the prosecutrix and her father has indirectly
admitted that the accused took the prosecutrix with him
for the purpose of roaming and that there was friendship
between the accused and the prosecutrix and that the
prosecutrix told the accused in the presence of her father
that she was in love with the accused. These suggestions,
to some extent, have further supported the prosecution
case.
39.            Fifthly, the accused has failed to prove that he
was falsely implicated by the prosecutrix or her father due
to enmity on account of quarrel which had taken place
prior to the occurrence. Conversely, there is no evidence
on record showing any motive or reason for the prosecutrix
or her parents to depose against the accused particularly
when the accused was their neighbour.
40.            My view finds supports by a case Bharwada
Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State of Gujarat, (SC), 1983 A.I.R.
(S.C.) 753, wherein the Apex Court observed:
Defence Counsel were found not convincing on every
aspect. This is also not believable that the father of the
prosecutrix influenced the prosecutrix in incriminating the
accused as he wanted to buy house of the father of the
accused on minimum price. Not only the defence which
have been taken during the trial have been found
unconvincing but also it has been found on record that Ld.
Defence Counsel has shifted his defence very frequently.
Once it was pleaded that prosecutrix was in love with the
accused. Subsequently, it was pleaded that a quarrel had
taken place prior to the incident and due to that reason
there was enmity between the parties and consequently
the prosecutrix and her father falsely implicated the
accused and lastly it was pleaded that father of the
prosecutrix was a property dealer and he wanted to buy a
house of father of the accused on minimum price and as
father of the accused refused to sell his house so the father
of the prosecutrix falsely implicated the accused in the

SC No.160/13            State vs. Prashant          Page 26 of 31
 present case.
42.        Seventhly, the testimony of prosecutrix has
been supported by other witnesses. For example, PW4
proved arrest memo of accused as Ex.PW4/A, his personal
search memo as Ex.PW4/B. PW5 proved the fact of
recording of DD Entry No.41B. PW6 proved the fact of
taking the samples of prosecutrix and handing over the
same to IO and seizing of the same vide memo Ex.PW6/A
which has also been supported by other witnesses.
43.        Lastly, it is not only the duty of the judge to see
that one innocent person should not be punished even if
hundred offenders are allowed to go scot-free but also he
has to see that the accused who has committed the crime
must not go unpunished. It is also duty of the court to
separate the grain from the chaff as held in case of
Bhagwan Dass vs. State (NCT of Delhi), (2011) 6 SCC 396.
While   considering   and       analyzing   entire    prosecution
evidence this court has come to the conclusion that all the
oral, circumstantial and scientific evidence has proved that
the   accused   Prashant    Kumar     committed       offence        of
administering   poison     or    stupefying,   intoxicating          or
unwholesome drug to the prosecutrix and committed

SC No.160/13          State vs. Prashant             Page 27 of 31
 sexual intercourse repeatedly with the prosecutrix forcibly
against her will after giving threat to the prosecutrix.
Therefore, it is bounden duty of this court to hold the
accused guilty and convict him.
                       CONCLUSIONS


44.        Consequent upon above reasons, discussion and
evidence on record and particularly discussed here in
above, it is held that the prosecution has successfully
proved   its   case   against   accused    Prashant   beyond
reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt that he
committed offence of causing hurt to the prosecutrix by
means of poison, etc., punishable u/s 328 IPC; offence of
Kidnapping, abducting or inducing the prosecutrix to
compel her marriage, etc. punishable u/s 366 IPC; and
offence of rape on the prosecutrix punishable u/s 376 IPC.
Accordingly, accused is held guilty and convicted for the
offences punishable u/s 328/366/376 IPC.
Announced in the Open Court
Dated:01.07.2013
                                 (DR. T.R. NAVAL)
                         Additional Sessions Judge, (SFTC)
                          Karkardooma Courts, Delhi



SC No.160/13          State vs. Prashant        Page 28 of 31
 IN THE COURT OF DR. T. R. NAVAL, ADDITIONAL SESSIONS
JUDGE, (SPECIAL FAST TRACK COURT), EAST, NORTH EAST
& SHAHDARA DISTRICTS, KARKARDOOMA COURTS, DELHI

SC No.160/13
State vs. Prashant
FIR No.225/11
PS Khajuri Khas

                     State Versus Prashant

                     ORDER ON SENTENCE
10.07.2013
Present:    Ms. Madhu Arora Addl. P.P. for the State.
            Convict/accused in J.C.
            Sh. Navneet Singh and Sh. K.S. Chauhan,
            Advocates for the convict/accused.
            I have heard arguments on the quantum of
sentence.
2.          It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Defence
Counsels that accused/convict is a young boy of 20 years
of age; he was doing private service; he had been in jail
for about 9 months; he is very poor; and he has no
previous criminal record. It has been prayed that lenient
view in sentence may be taken and accused may be
released on the sentence which he has already undergone
as his life may be ruined if he is sent to jail.
3.          On the other hand, it has been argued on behalf
of   Ld.    Additional   Public    Prosecutor   that   deterrent


SC No.160/13             State vs. Prashant        Page 29 of 31
 punishment may be awarded to the accused as case
against    the   accused   has    been      established    by   the
prosecution.
4.          Keeping in view the submissions and all relevant
factors and circumstances in which the accused committed
crime, it would be just and appropriate if moderate view in
sentence is taken. Accordingly, convict/accused Prashant
is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 5 years
and he is further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- in
default simple imprisonment for one year for the offence
punishable under section 328 IPC.
5.          Convict/accused Prahsant is further sentenced
to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 5 years and he is
further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- in default
simple    imprisonment     for   one   year    for   the   offence
punishable under section 366 IPC.
6.          Convict/accused Prahsant is further sentenced
to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 7 years and he is
further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.10,000/- in default
simple imprisonment for one year and six months for the
offence punishable under section 376 IPC.
7.          All the sentences will run concurrently.
8.          It is further ordered that if convict/accused
Prashant    has undergone any period in judicial custody,

SC No.160/13           State vs. Prashant            Page 30 of 31
 that period will be set off against the sentence as provided
U/s 428 Cr. P.C. As per judicial record accused has been in
J.C. since 31.7.2011 to 08.5.2012 and 01.7.2013 to
10.7.2013.
9.           Out of the fine amount, and after expiration of
the period of appeal, a sum of Rs.10,000/- will be payable
to    the   prosecutrix     as    compensation.      Besides     this
compensation, she will also be entitled to get other
compensation, if available to her under other laws.
10.          The   convict/accused        Prashant   be   sent       to
imprisonment to serve the sentence.
11.          A copy each of judgment and order on sentence
is supplied to convict/accused Prashant free of cost.
             File be consigned to Record Room.