               In brief the case of the prosecution is that on 27.4.11, on receiving 

of DD No. 66, police went to the spot at C­31, Ambika Vihar, Nihal Vihar.  At the 

spot, prosecutrix along with her father Shri Dinesh was found present.   Police 


SC No. 76/12                                                          Page 1of 11
                                                  2

recorded the statement of the prosecutrix in which the prosecutrix has stated that 

the accused has committed rape with the prosecutrix in the poultry farm house. 

On the basis of the statement of the prosecutrix, the FIR was registered.   The 

prosecutrix was got medically examined and her statement was also got recorded 

U/s   164   Cr.PC.     On   29.4.11,   the   accused   was   arrested   and   he   was   also   got 

medically examined from SGM Hospital.  
2.               After   investigation   of   the   case,   the   Investigating   Officer   (IO)has 

filed the charge­sheet against the accused U/s 376  IPC. Charge U/s 376/506 IPC 

has been framed against the accused to which the accused pleaded not guilty and 

claimed trial.
3.               In   order   to   prove   its   case,   the   prosecution   has   examined   12 

witnesses. The statement of accused U/s 313 Cr. P.C. was recorded in which he 

had denied the case of the prosecution and had not examined any witnesses in his 

defence.
                 PW1 Dr. Kirti Verma has proved the MLC of the prosecutrix as Ex. 

PW1/A.  She has deposed that on local examination, the hymen of the prosecutrix 

was found intact.
                 PW2 H.C. Rajesh has proved the FIR as Ex. PW2/A.   
                 PW3  the prosecutrix, has deposed that she do not know the date but 

it was about 7­8 months ago.  One day at about 4 p.m., she was playing outside 

her house and the accused came to her and took her to poultry farm house.  The 

accused took her in a room and then bolted the room from inside. He removed her 

pant and also removed his own pant.  He put his urinating organ in her urinating 



SC No. 76/12                                                                      Page 2of 11
                                                 3

organ by lying on her.  She cried and raised an alarm. He ran away.  Blood oozed 

from her private part. She came back to her house and informed the incident to 

her father. Her father called the police at 100 number and police came there.   She 

was   taken   to   the   hospital   for   medical   examination.     Police   has   recorded   her 

statement which is Ex. PW3/A.  After 1­2 days of the incident, her statement was 

also recorded in the court which is Ex. PW3/B. 
                In cross examination, PW3 has deposed that she had cried when the 

accused was doing wrong act with her in the room at poultry farm. They were 

playing near the poultry farm in the gali.  The accused took her to poultry farm by 

inducing her to show the hens.  She knew the accused prior to the incident.  Her 

father had a quarrel once with the accused as he came to their house in drunken 

condition.   She has denied the suggestion that her father had borrowed money 

from the accused hence he came to demand his money from her father.  She has 

denied the suggestion that the accused has been falsely implicated in the case at 

the instance of her father.   
                PW4 Shri Dinesh, the father of the prosecutrix   has deposed that 

about one year ago, the prosecutrix has told him that the accused has done wrong 

act with her.  He reported the matter to the police.  The prosecutrix was taken to 

the hospital where her medical examination was conducted.  Police recorded her 

statement.  
                In   cross   examination,   PW4   has   deposed   that   previously,   he   was 

working at the poultry farm of one Surender.  The accused also joined the same 

farmhouse as labourer.  The accused used to stay in the farmhouse.  He has denied 



SC No. 76/12                                                                      Page 3of 11
                                            4

the suggestion that he has borrowed Rs. 4000/­ from the accused and that he was 

not able to return the same and so the accused has been falsely implicated in the 

case. He do not remember the date of the birth of the prosecutrix.  He has visited 

the poultry farm along with the police after the incident.  

               PW5   W/H.C.   Sudesh   has   taken   the   prosecutrix   for   medical 

examination in the SGM Hospital. 
               PW6 Ct. Dinesh has taken the accused for his medical examination 

in the SGM Hospital.  
               PW7 Ms. Sugandha Aggarwal, Ld. ARC has proved the statement of 

the prosecutrix recorded U/s 164 Cr.PC as Ex. PW3/B and the proceedings as Ex. 

PW7/A.  
               PW8 Ct. Sukhbir has taken the personal search of the accused and 

has proved his personal search memo as Ex. PW8/A. 
               PW11 Dr. Ajay Kumar has proved the MLC of the accused as Ex. 

PW11/A.  He has deposed that on examination, there was nothing to suggest that 

the accused was not capable of performing sexual intercourse.   

               PW9 SI Dinesh Chandra has deposed that on  26.4.11, on receipt of 

DD No. 66­A at about 10.54 in the night, he  along with Ct. Diwan went to the 

poultry farm near leather factory, Nihal Vihar, where they met the prosecutrix 

with her father. He informed the SHO regarding the incident and after some time 

W/ASI Krishna with W/H.C. Sudesh came at the spot.  
               PW10 ASI Krishna has deposed that on  26.4.11 at about 12 mid 

night she along with Lady H.C. Sudesh went to the spot at the poultry farm near 



SC No. 76/12                                                            Page 4of 11
                                                5

leather factory, Nihal Vihar, where she met the prosecutrix and her father along 

with SI Dinesh Chandra. She recorded the statement of the prosecutrix which is 

Ex. PW3/A. She prepared the rukka Ex. PW10/A and got the FIR registered. She 

prepared  site plan  Ex.  PW10/B.    SI  Dinesh Chandera  and W/HC. Sudesh has 

taken the prosecutrix for her medical examination to SGM Hospital. He collected 

the MLC and the exhibits of the prosecutrix vide seizure memo Ex. PW5/A.  The 

accused was arrested vide arrest memo Ex. PW10/C and accused was medically 

examined   at   SGM   Hospital.     The   MLC   and  the   exhibits   of  the   accused   were 

seized vide seizure memo Ex. PW10/D. The exhibits were sent to FSL. The result 

is Ex. PW10/G and G1.
                In cross examination, PW10 has deposed that the said poultry farm 

is about 200 sq. yards. The entry to the said farm was accessible to everyone from 

the locality. The statement of prosecutrix was recorded in the poultry farm itself. 

She did not get the spot of incident photographed. She remained at the farm at 

about 1 or 1.30 a.m. in the night. The prosecutrix came in PS approximately at 

about   2   a.m.   after   her   medical   examination.   She   had   not   enquired   from   the 

neighbourhood whether prosecutrix was playing near the poultry farm on the said 

date. 
                PW12   W/SI   Savita   has   deposed   that   on   28.4.11,   she   had   moved 

application in the court for recording the statement of the prosecutrix. On 29.4.11, 

statement of the prosecutrix was recorded U/s 164 Cr.PC. 

4.              Ld. Counsel for the accused has argued that the accused has been 

falsely implicated in the case.  The testimony of the prosecutrix is not reliable as 



SC No. 76/12                                                                     Page 5of 11
                                                  6

there are contradictions in her testimony.  The medical report of the prosecutrix 

also does not support the case of the prosecution as it has been opined that the 

hymen of the prosecutrix was found intact at the time of her medical examination 

and   so   no   sexual   intercourse   has   been   committed   with   the   prosecutrix.     The 

accused has been falsely implicated the case by the prosecutrix at the instance of 

her father as he has failed to return the borrowed money of Rs. 4000/­ to the 

accused.  On these grounds, it is prayed that the accused be acquitted. 

                On the other hand, Ld. APP has argued that from the evidence on 

record, the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt against the 

accused. 
5.              PW3, the prosecutrix is the material witness of the case.  PW3 has 

supported the case of the prosecution and her testimony is also corroborated by 

her statement Ex. PW3/A on the basis of which FIR has been registered and by 

her statement recorded U/s 164 Cr.PC which is Ex. PW3/B.  PW3 has been cross 

examined   by   the   accused   but   no   such   material   has   been   come   on   record   to 

disbelieve her testimony. 
                Ld. counsel for the accused has pointed out a contradiction in the 

testimony of the prosecutrix to the fact that the prosecutrix in her testimony has 

deposed that she was playing outside her house and the accused came to her and 

took her to poultry farm house, however, the prosecutrix in   her statement Ex. 

PW3/B   has   stated   that   when   she   was   playing   and   had   gone   to   the   farm,   the 

accused   has   pulled   inside   her   by   pressing   her   mouth.     In   my   view,   this 

contradiction is not material as it does not affect the case of the prosecution on 



SC No. 76/12                                                                       Page 6of 11
                                                 7

merits. 
               It has been observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in AIR 2004 

Supreme Court 1497 as follows:

                It has been observed by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in ILR (2009) 

SUPP. 5 Delhi 639 :­

                        36. In another case, B.C. Deva V. State of Karnataka  

        reported at (2007) 12 SCC 122, inspite of the fact that no injuries  


SC No. 76/12                                                                       Page 8of 11
                                                9

      were found on the person of the prosecutrix, yet finding her version  

      to   be   reliable   and   trustworthy,   the   Apex   Court   upheld   the  

      conviction of the accused. 
                      " The plea that no marks of injuries were found either  

      on the person of the accused or the person of the prosecutrix, does  

      not   lead   to   any   inference   that   the   accused   has   not   committed  

      forcible sexual intercourse on the prosecutrix.  Though the report of  

      the   gynecologist   pertaining   to   the   medical   examination   of   the  

      prosecutrix does not disclose any evidence of sexual intercourse,  

      yet even in the absence of any corroboration of medical evidence,  

      the oral testimony of the prosecutrix, which is found to be cogent,  

      reliable, convincing and trustworthy has to be accepted". 

                      37 Taking into consideration the facts of this case in  

      terms   of   the   observations   contained   in   Essentials   of   Forensic  

      Medicine (supra); Ranjit Hazarika (supra); B.C. Deva (supra), to  

      lay down a general proposition that where there are no injuries or  

      that  the  hymen  is  intact,  connotes  that no  penetration  has  taken  

      place and a finding of acquittal is bound to be given, would be an  

      incomplete   interpretation   of   the   law   surrounding   the   offence   of  

      rape.     As   also   observed   in   the   aforegoing   paras,   even   a   slight  

      penetration   in   vulva   with   or   without   violence   is   sufficient   to  

      constitute the offence of rape. 
               PW3, the prosecutrix has deposed that the accused removed her pant 


SC No. 76/12                                                                      Page 9of 11
                                                  10

and   also   removed   his   own   pant.     The   accused   put   his   urinating   organ   in   her 

urinating organ by lying on her.   She cried and raised an alarm.   Blood oozed 

from   her   private   part.     The   testimony   of   PW3   is   reliable,   cogent   and   inspire 

confidence.  Keeping in view the aforesaid judgment, the fact that the hymen of 

the prosecutrix was found intact does not lead to any inference that the accused 

has not committed forcible sexual intercourse on the prosecutrix. 

7.              The defence of the accused that he has been falsely implicated in the 

case as the father of the prosecutrix has borrowed an amount of Rs. 4000/­ from 

the accused and has not repaid.   PW4, who is the father of the prosecutrix has 

been cross examined by the accused but no such material has been come on record 

which would prove the defence of the accused.  The accused has also not led any 

evidence in his defence.  The accused has failed to prove his defence. 

8.              Ld.   counsel   for   the   accused   has   argued   that   the   prosecution   has 

failed to prove  that the  prosecutrix  was  about 12  years of age  on  the  date of 

alleged commission of offence.  There is no documentary proof regarding the date 

of birth of the prosecutrix. However, in the statement Ex. PW3/A, the prosecutrix 

has stated her age as 12 years.  The prosecutrix also in her statement recorded U/s 

164 Cr.PC which is Ex. PW3/B has stated her age as 12 years.  The prosecutrix 

when examined in the court as PW3 has also deposed her age as 12 years.  The 

accused has not put any suggestion to the prosecutrix that she was not 12 years of 

age on the date of alleged commission of offence.  From the evidence on record, it 

is proved that the prosecutrix was 12 years of age on the date of commission of 

offence.  

SC No. 76/12                                                                       Page 10of 11
                                                11
9.              In   her  testimony,  PW3  has   no   where  stated   that  the  accused  has 

threatened to kill her, if she disclosed the incident to someone, so no offence U/s 

506 IPC stands proved against the accused. 
10.             In view of the above discussions, the prosecution has proved its case 

beyond reasonable doubt against the accused that he has committed rape on the 

prosecutrix and accordingly the accused is convicted for the offence punishable 

U/s 376 IPC.   However, the prosecution has failed to prove its case against the 

accused   that   he   has   threatened   the   prosecutrix   with   threat   to   her   life   and 

accordingly, the accused is  acquitted for the offence punishable U/s 506 IPC.     