Case of Prosecution:

1.             On   06.04.2010   Vide   DD   No.   4A   at   about   8.25   am   an 

information was received in police station Govindpuri regarding incident 

of   rape   with   a   seven   year   old   girl   at   Kabari   Jhuggi,   Kuan   Mohalla, 

Tugalakabad Village.   SI Hansraj along with Ct. Dharam Pal reached at 

the spot.   On reaching there they came to know that police has already 

taken   the   prosecutrix   and   her   maternal   grandmother   (nani)   to   AIIMS 

Hospital.   SI Hansraj deputed Ct. Dharam Pal at the spot and himself 

went to the AIIMS Hospital and met there with Ct. Om Prakash and Ct. 

Sanju.  On the instructions of IO,  Ct. Sanju took prosecutrix and got her 

medically examined.   IO recorded the statement of prosecutrix and case 

was registered against the accused persons namely Bhavesh, Sakil and 

Manna.  Investigation of the case was handed over to Inspector Mahender 

Singh.     SI   Hansraj   handed   over   him   MLC   papers   of   prosecutrix   and 

seizure   memo   along   with   pullandas.     Accused   persons   were   arrested. 


SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 2 of 21
 Statement of prosecutrix under section 164 of Cr.P.C was got recorded. 

Accused persons were medically examined at AIIMS Hospital.  Exhibits 

were sent to FSL.  Thereafter, statement of witnesses were got recorded 

by the Investigating officer and after completion of investigation, charge 

sheet   under   Section   363/376(2)(g)/506/34   IPC   was   filed   against   the 

accused persons in the court.
2.            Since   the   offence   under   Section   376   IPC   is   exclusively 

triable by the Court of Sessions, therefore, after supply of documents, Ld. 

Metropolitan Magistrate committed the case to the court of Sessions.

Charge against the accused:
3.            Prima   facie   case   under   section   363/366/376(2)(g)/506   r.w. 

Section 34 IPC was made out against the accused. Charge under Section 

363/366/376(2)(g)/506 r.w. Section 34 IPC was framed upon the accused 

Bhavesh @ Sameer by my Ld. Predecessor to which he pleaded not guilty 

and claimed trial. Accused No. 2  Manan @ Manna and Accused No. 3 

Sakil @ Sakir were declared juveniles by the Ld. Predecessor court and 

were sent for trial to Juvenile Justice Board vide order dated 05.03.2011. 

Witnesses Examined:
4.            In   support   of   its   case,   prosecution   has   examined   fourteen 

(14)   witnesses   in   all.   The   brief   summary   of   the   deposition   of   the 

prosecution witnesses is as under:­

Material Witnesses:­

5.            PW­4 is prosecutrix 'X' who deposed that she was staying 


SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 3 of 21
 with her grandmother.  More than a year back, one night she was sleeping 

in the jhuggi of her Nani.  Her grandfather had gone for work.  When she 

woke up she found that accused Bhavesh was taking her on his shoulders 

and he took her towards a jungle. Accused Manan@ Manna and Sakil@ 

Sakir were already present there in the jungle. Accused Bhavesh showed 

her knife and intimated her.  He kept cloth (like chunni) on her mouth and 

laid her on the ground and removed her underwear and committed rape 

with her by inserting his penis into her vagina. Accused Sakil and Manan 

@   Manna   were   standing   there   at   that   time.   Accused   persons   also 

intimidated her not to reveal the incident to anybody otherwise she would 

be killed.  Accused persons left her on the way.  She was bleeding from 

her private part.  She came back home and revealed the entire incident to 

her maternal grandmother.  Her maternal uncle called the police and the 

police recorded her statement.   She was also medically examined.   She 

accompanied  the police to the place of incident and showed them  the 

place where she was raped by accused Bhavesh in the presence of accused 

Sakil @ Sakir and Manan @ Manna.   She further stated that accused 

Bhavesh @ Sameer, Sakil @ Sakir and Manan @ Manna are known to 

her as they used to roam in the area adjoining to her jhuggi and used to 

intimidate the inhabitants of the locality.  She has correctly identified the 

accused Bhavesh @ Sameer in the court.  
6.            PW­5 is Smt. Sharmil, mother of the prosecutrix.  She stated 

that she works as maid servant.   Her daughter/prosecutrix was staying 



SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 4 of 21
 with her mother.   Her daughter / prosecutrix had told her that accused 

Bhavesh @ Sameer had taken her to the jungle by lifting her from the 

place of her mother house while she was sleeping and took her to jungle 

where he committed rape with the prosecutrix in the presence of accused 

Sakil   @   Sakir   and   Manan   @   Manna.   She   further   deposed   that   her 

daughter   told   her   that   accused   persons   intimidated   her   to   kill.     On 

08.04.2010 she along with her daughter accompanied the police to the 

jungle where her daughter was raped by the accused Bhavesh @ Sameer. 

She has correctly identified the accused present in the court.  

7.             PW­7   is   Smt.   Faryan   Bibi,   maternal   grandmother   of   the 

prosecutrix,   deposed   that   about   2   ½   years   back   she   and   her   grand 

daughter/prosecutrix were sleeping in her jhuggi.   At about 2 am in the 

night   when   she   woke   up   she   does   not   found   her 

granddaughter/prosecutrix there.  She made efforts to locate her but she 

could not be found. At about 4 am in the same night her granddaughter/ 

prosecutrix   returned   back   home.   Her   granddaughter/prosecutrix   was 

bleeding from her private parts.   Her granddaughter told her that when 

she was sleeping accused Bhavesh had taken her to the jungle where he 

forcibly committed rape with her in the presence of accused Sakil@Sakir 

and Manan@ Manna.  She called the police and police took her daughter 

for medical examination.   She handed over the blood stained clothes to 

the police.  Accused Bhavesh @ Sameer and case property was correctly 

identified by the witness in the court.  


SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 5 of 21
 8.             PW­13   is   Inspector   Mahinder   Singh   who   deposed   that   on 

06.04.2010 he was entrusted with the investigation of this case.  He along 

with Ct. Om Prakash reached at AIIMS Hopital where SI H.R. Bainsla 

handed over him exhibits and seizure memos.   He along with Ct. Om 

Prakash and Ct. Pradeep apprehended accused Manan @ Manna, Bhavesh 

@   Sameer   and   Sakil@   Sakir,   arrested   the   accused,   prepared   personal 

search   memo   and   arrest   memo,   got   the   accused   persons   medically 

examined,  prepared the site plan, sent the case property to FSL, recorded 

the statement of witnesses, prepared the charge sheet and submitted the 

same   to   the   concerned   court.     He   further   stated   that   during   the   trial, 

ossification test of accused Sakil @ Sakir and Manna was got conducted 

and as they turned out to be minor their charge sheet was filed before the 

Juvenile   Justice   Board.     Accused   Bhavesh   @   Sameer   was   correctly 

identified by the witness in the court.  
Formal Witnesses:­

9.             PW­3 is HC Bhudev Singh who deposed that on 06.04.2010 

while he was posted as Duty officer from 8 am to 4 pm, he received a 

rukka   through   Ct.   Om   Prakash   and   recorded   the   FIR   and   proved   on 

record FIR Ex.PW3/A and endorsement on rukka Ex.PW3/B.  He stated 

that after registration of the case he handed over the copy of the FIR and 

rukka to Ct. Om Prakash who handed over the same to the Investigating 

officer of the present case.  
10.            PW­6 is Ms. Surya Malik Grover who recorded the statement 



SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 6 of 21
 of prosecutrix and proved on record Ex.PW6/A to Ex.PW/D.

11.           PW­8 is Ct. Pradeep Kumar who deposed that he along with 

IO and Ct. Jitender had gone to the scrap/garbage collection center at 

CCI, Tuglakabad in search of the accused persons where at the instance of 

the IO he apprehended accused Bhavesh and Ct. Jitender apprehended 

accused Sakil @ Sakir.   Accused persons were interrogated by the IO. 

Accused  Bhavesh   @  Sameer was taken to hospital  and was medically 

examined.     IO   then   collected   the   sealed   pullandas   and   produced   the 

accused   Bhavesh   @   Sameer   before   the   concerned   court   from   where 

accused was sent to judicial custody.  Accused was correctly identified by 

the witness in the court.  
12.           PW­9   is   HC   Om   Prakash   deposed   that   on   06.04.2010   he 

joined the investigation of this case with IO.  He reached at the spot.  He 

along with prosecutrix and her grandmother went to AIIMS Hopital in a 

PCR   Van   where   he   met   SI   Hansraj   who   called   L/Ct.   Sanju   in   the 

Hospital.   IO got the prosecutrix medically examined and recorded the 

statement of prosecutrix and her grandmother.  IO prepared the rukka and 

handed over the same to him for the registration of the case.  He got the 

case  registered   and   the  further investigation was assigned to Inspector 

Mahender Singh. He handed over the rukka and copy of FIR to Inspector 

Mahender Singh.  PW­9 further stated that he along with IO had gone to 

jhuggi of accused Manna where he was interrogated and arrested by the 

IO.


SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 7 of 21
 13.           PW­10   is   IO   /   SI   Hansraj   Bainsla   who   deposed   that   on 

06.04.2010   on   receipt   of   DD   No.   4A   he   along   with   Ct.   Dharampal 

reached at the spot and came to know that rape has been committed with 

a minor girl.   They also came to know that prosecutrix along with her 

maternal grandmother has been taken to the hospital.  No eye witness was 

present at the spot.  Ct. Dharampal was deputed at the spot and he came 

to  AIIMS   Hospital   where  Ct. Om   Prakash  met  him.    He  called L/Ct. 

Sanju to the hospital who on the instructions of him, got the prosecutrix 

medically examined.   He has duly proved on record rukka Ex.PW10/A 

which was given to Ct. Om Prakash for registration of the case. He took 

into possession two pullandas vide seizure memo Ex.PW10/B and after 

registration of the case, further investigation was assigned to Inspector 

Mahender singh.   PW­10 handed over the MLC of prosecutrix, seizure 

memos along with case property to IO Inspector Mahender Singh.  

14.           PW­11 Head Constable Rajesh Kumar who deposed that on 

07.04.2010 as per the instructions of the IO, he took accused Manan @ 

Manna to AIIMS Hospital and got him medically examined.   He then 

collected the three sealed pullandas and handed over the same to the IO 

which were seized by the IO vide memo Ex.PW11/A.  
15.           PW­12   is   Constable   Sanjeev   Kumar   who   deposed   that   on 

01.06.2010 as per the instructions of the IO he collected the exhibits of the 

present case from MHC(M) PS Govindpuri vide RC No. 24/21/10 and 

took the same to FSL Rohini and deposited the same there.  He gave the 



SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 8 of 21
 receipt of the same to MHC(M) PS Govindpuri.   He stated that so long 

the case property remained in his possession, the same was not tampered 

with. The IO recorded his statement to this effect. 

16.            PW­14 is Sh. A.K. Srivastava who deposed that he examined 

all the parcels containing exhibits and submitted his DNA finger print 

analysis report Ex.PW14/A.   
Medical Witnesses:­

17.            PW­1   is   Dr.   Apurva   Gupta   who   conducted   medical 

examination   of   the   prosecutrix   and   prepared   the   detailed   MLC 

Ex.PW1/A.  
18.            PW­2   is   Dr.   Akhilesh   Raj   who   proved   on   record   MLC 

Ex.PW2/A of accused Bhavesh duly prepared by Dr. Apporv Goel.  

Statement and Defence of accused:­

19.            Statement of accused under section 313 Cr.P.C was recorded 

wherein   accused   stated   that   he  has   been  lifted  from  his   house   by the 

police   and   was   falsely   implicated   in   the   present   case.     He   had   some 

dispute with the maternal grandfather of the prosecutrix on account of 

apportionment of the proceeds of selling of scraps as he was demanding 

bigger   share   for   himself   and   when   he   refused   grandfather   of   the 

prosecutrix abused him and his sons also quarreled with him and on the 

next day when he was sleeping in his house police arrested him.  Accused 

Bhavesh further chose not to lead any evidence in his defence. 

20.            I have heard Ld. Defence counsel for accused as well as Ld. 


SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 9 of 21
 APP for state and have carefully perused the record. 

Arguments of Ld. APP for state:­

21.            Ld. APP for state argued that  the prosecutrix has supported 

the case of the prosecution.  Her testimony could not be shattered in the 

cross   examination   and   is   duly   supported   by   the   medical   record,   FSL 

report.  It is further argued that statement under section 164 Cr.P.C given 

by the prosecutrix is by name of the accused.  It is argued that once the 

prosecution witness is examined on oath statement recorded under section 

161   Cr.P.C   and   164   Cr.P.C   goes.   Hence,   it   is   argued   that   the   offence 

against   the   accused   is   proved   beyond   doubt   and   he   is   liable   to   be 

convicted. 
Arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel for accused persons:­

22.            On   the   other   hand,   Ld.   Defence   counsel   for   accused   has 

argued   that   prosecution   witnesses   have   not   supported   the   case   of 

prosecution.  It is argued that prosecutrix has not told the date, month and 

year in her examination. Prosecutrix in her examination in chief did not 

told about the knife by which she was threatened by the accused. It is 

further   argued   by   the   counsel   for   accused   that   due   to   enmity   with 

grandfather of the prosecutrix he was falsely implicated in the case. It is 

also argued that prosecutrix was conversant with Bengali language and 

her statement under section 164 Cr.P.C was recorded in Hindi. Hence, the 

accused is falsely implicated and is liable to be acquitted.  

Conclusion:­


SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 10 of 21
 23.             "Rape"   is   the   act   of   physically   forcing   a   woman   to   have 

sexual   intercourse:   an   act   of   sexual   intercourse   that   is   forced   upon   a 

woman against her will.   "Statutory rape" is a sexual intercourse with a 

girl under the age of consent, which age varies in different States from ten 

to eighteen years. 
                The offence of rape in its simplest term is 'the ravishment of 

a woman, without her consent, by force, fear or fraud', or as 'the carnal 

knowledge of a woman by force against her will? 'Rape' or 'Raptus' is 

when a man hath carnal knowledge of a woman by force and against her 

will   (Co.   lett.   123­b);   or   as   expressed   more   fully,   'rape'   is   the   carnal 

knowledge of any woman, above the age of particular years, against her 

will; or of a woman child, under that age, with or against her will. Section 

375 IPC defines rape. This Section requires the essentials:­

                    1.  Sexual intercourse by a man with woman.
                         2. The sexual intercourse must be under circumstances 

falling under any of the six clauses in Section 375 IPC.  

24.                  In  MANU/SC/7825/2008 Moti Lal vs. State of M.P., the  

Apex Court had observed that :­

             "a   rapist   not   only   violates   the   victim's   privacy   and  
             personal   integrity,   but   inevitably   causes   serious  
             psychological as well as physical harm in the process.  
             Rape   is   not   merely   a   physical   assault   ­­   it   is   often  
             destructive   of   the   whole   personality   of   the   victim.   A  
             murderer   destroys   the   physical   body   of   his   victim,   a  
             rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless female.   The  
             court,   therefore,   shoulders   a   great   responsibility   while  

SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 11 of 21
             trying an accused on charges of rape. They must deal  
            with   such   cases   with   utmost   sensitivity.   The   Courts  
            should examine the broader probabilities of a case and  
            not get swayed by minor contradictions or insignificant  
            discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix, which  
            are   not   of   a   fatal   nature,   to   throw   out   an   otherwise  
            reliable prosecution case. "
25.           As per the case of the prosecution the prosecutrix is aged about 

7 years when the offence was committed, to which effect the statement is 

made by prosecutrix and her grandmother. Prosecutrix in her statement 

which was recorded on 12.08.2011 has stated that she study in Ist class in 

Hope Center School near their jhuggi. The accused has not challenged the 

age   of   the   prosecutrix   during  trial.  To  prove  its   case,   prosecution  has 

examined the prosecutrix as PW­4 who is the star witness of the case. 

The testimony of the witness remains consistent throughout as she, in her 

statement   specifically   deposed  that   at   the  time  of   occurrence   she   was 

staying with her maternal grand mother. One day she was sleeping in the 

Jhuggi of her Nani. When she woke up she found that accused Bhavesh 

was taking her on his shoulder and took her towards jungle.  In the jungle 

one accused Sakil@ Sakir and Manan @ Manna were present.   In the 

judge, accused Bhavesh @ Sameer showed her a knife and intimidated 

her, tied her mouth with a chunni and then committed rape with her and 

when she cried all of them have fled away.  She has specifically deposed 

that   the   accused   laid   her   on   the   ground,   removed   her   underwear   and 

committed rape with her by inserting his penis into her vagina.  Nothing 


SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 12 of 21
 adverse came out from the testimony of  this witness.  PW­5, mother of 

the prosecutrix has also corroborated the statement of prosecutrix that she 

was told by her daughter that accused Bhavesh @ Sameer had taken her 

to the jungle and had committed rape with her in the presence of accused 

Sakil   @   Sakir   and   Manan   @   Manna.   On   the   similar   lines   the   grand 

mother of prosecutrix had stated that on one night at about 2 am she did 

not find her granddaughter/prosecutrix sleeping in the jhuggi.  She made 

efforts to locate her.   At about 4 am on the same night the prosecutrix 

returned back and at that time she was bleeding from her private part.  On 

inquiry it was told by her that accused Bhavesh @ Sameer had committed 

rape upon her and accused Sakil @ Sakir and Manan @ Manna were also 

standing   there  at   that   time.   Nothing  adverse   came   out   from   the   cross 

examination   of   this   witness.   The   testimony   of   the   witnesses   remain 

consistent.
26.            Ld.   counsel   for   accused   has   argued   that   the   testimony   of 

prosecutrix is not reliable since in her statement she could not tell the 

specific date, month and year of the incident.   Further, in her statement 

she has exaggerated to the effect that earlier she did not talk about the fact 

that accused Bhavesh @ Sameer had intimidated her by showing a knife 

and   as   such   her   testimony   may   not   be   relied   upon.   I   have   heard   the 

submissions.   It is settled law that conviction of the accused can be based 

on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix if the same inspires confidence as 

the same cannot be equated on the same footing as the statement of the 



SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 13 of 21
 accomplice. 
27.            In the case titled as  Radhu Vs State of Madhya Pradesh  

2007, Crl. Law Journal 4704  wherein Hon'ble Supreme court has held 

that:­

            " It is now well settled that a finding of guilt in a case of  
            rape, can be based on the uncorroborated evidence of  
            the   prosecutrix.   The   very   nature   of   offence   makes   it  
            difficult   to   get   direct   corroborating   evidence.   The  
            evidence of the prosecutrix should not be rejected on the  
            basis of minor discrepancies and contradictions. If the  
            victim   of   rape   states   on   oath   that   she   was   forcibly  
            subjected   to   sexual   intercourse,   her   statement   will  
            normally   be   accepted,   even   if   it   is   uncorroborated,  
            unless   the   material   on   record   requires   drawing   of   an  
            inference   that   there   was   consent   or   that   the   entire  
            incident was improbable or imaginary.
28             In 2010 III AD (DELHI) 448 titled as Shanker Sahai Vs. 

State it has been held that: 
29          Similar view has been taken in 2009 VI AD (DELHI) 37 Arshad 

Vs. State wherein it has been held that:
            "Conviction of the offender in rape case is based on sole  
            testimony of rape victim may be a child provided if it  


SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 14 of 21
             inspires confidence of the court."
30.           So far as the competency of a child to testify as a witness is  

concerned, the court in India have relied on the proposition formulated  

by Justice Brewer in Wheeler Vs. United States 159 US 523 (1895) who  

had   opined   that   the  evidence of  a child witness is  not  required to be  

rejected   per   se,   but   the   court   as   a   rule   of   prudence   considers   such  

evidence   with   close   scrutiny   and   only   on   being   convinced   about   the  

quality thereof and reliability can record conviction, based thereon..........

31.            The   reservation   expressed   with   regard   to   evaluating   the  

testimony of a witness is based on apprehensions that children may be  

vulnerable and susceptible to be swayed by what others tell and the child  

witness is an easy pray to tutoring and therefore their evidence must be  

evaluated   carefully   and   with   greater   circumspection.   (Ref:   Panchi   Vs.  

State of U.P. MANU/SC/0530/1998: 1998 Cri. L. J 4044).

32.            It is equally well settled that if satisfied that the testimony of  

the child witness is a voluntary expression of what transpired and is an  

accurate impression  of the same, no corroboration of the testimony is  

required. The Supreme Court has repeatedly ruled that there is no rule of  

practice  that   the  evidence  of a child witness needs corroboration and  

stated that conviction can be based on it. It is only as a rule of caution  

and prudence that the court may require that it would be desirable to  

have corroboration from other dependable evidence. (Ref: Dattu Ramrao  

Sakhare & Ors. Vs. State of Maharashtra MANU/SC/1185/1997: (1997) 5  

SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 15 of 21
 SCC 341 : Suryanarayana Vs. State of Karnataka MANU/SC/0001/2001 :  

2001 Cri. L.J.705). 
33.            The prosecutrix is a minor girl of 7 years. A minor child 

cannot be expected to memorize the exact minute details like date, month 

and   year   of   the   incident.     In   her   statement   she   had   deposed   that   the 

incident  had   occurred  one year back.   Human Memory is fallible and 

fades away by the passage of time. The non mentioning of the exact date 

does   not   go   to   the   root   of   her   statement   to   make   her   statement 

unbelievable.  Similarly, the minor exaggeration in her statement that the 

accused has intimidated her on the point of knife also does not shake the 

veracity of her statement which remain consistent throughout so far as the 

identity   of   the   accused   persons   and   committing   of   rape   upon   her   is 

concerned.     Seeing   the   tender   age   of   the   prosecutrix   the   court   is   not 

inclined to be swayed away by the minute exaggerations or omissions. 

            Hence, the minor omissions in the statement of the prosecutrix 

when she failed to talk about the knife in the earlier statement, does not 

make her statement untrustworthy on the material points of identity of 

accused and rape committed by him forcefully.  
34.            Identification of the accused :­   The   prosecutrix,   her 

mother as well as her grandmother have collectively deposed that all the 

three accused persons were known to the prosecutrix as well as to them as 

they used to roam in the same locality and were in the same profession as 

that of the maternal grandfather of the prosecutrix.  The FIR was lodged 



SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 16 of 21
 by   the   prosecutrix   by   name   and   as   such   there   was   no   need   for   TIP. 

Arguments  by the counsel for accused that no TIP was conducted, is of 

no   substance   when   accused   are   already   known   to   the   victim.   The 

prosecutrix has named the accused in her statement before the magistrate, 

before the police, before the court and has also identified the accused 

Bhavesh   in   the  court   hence,  the  identity of  the  accused  is  established 

beyond doubt.  
35.            Medical Evidence  :­   The testimony of the prosecutrix is 

also corroborated and supported by the medical evidence on record.  The 

MLC of the prosecutrix is proved by the concerned doctor.  In the MLC 

hymen of the prosecutrix was found torn and blood stains were seen over 

labia which goes to corroborate statement of the prosecutrix on the point 

of rape being committed upon her and also corroborate her statement that 

after rape was committed she was bleeding from her private part. On the 

similar   lines,   grandmother   of   the   prosecutrix   PW­7   has   deposed   that 

when prosecutrix  returned home, she was bleeding from her private part. 

The prosecutrix has named the accused to be person who committed rape 

with her.   Moreover, the DNA report has been proved by PW­14 and as 

per the report it is reported that "The DNA fingerprint test performed on  

the exhibits is sufficient to conclude that source of exhibit '5' ( Blood in  

gauze of Bhavesh @ Sameer), exhibit '4' (Blood in gauze of Shakeel @  

Sakir) and source of   exhibit '6' (Blood in gauze of Manan @ Manna)  

cannot be excluded for being responsible for biological stains i.e. seminal  



SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 17 of 21
 stains present on the source of   exhibit '1' (underwear of prosecutrix),  

exhibit '2a' (vaginal smear of prosecutrix), exhibit '2b' (vaginal smear of  

prosecutrix),   exhibit   '2c'   (vaginal   smear   of   prosecutrix),   exhibit  

'3a' (underwear) & '3b' (banain)."  
               Hence, it is clear from DNA report that seminal stains found 

on the undergarments and vaginal smear of the prosecutrix matched with 

accused Bhavesh also. The DNA report along with consistent testimony 

of prosecutrix finally and conclusively prove the factum of rape by the 

accused Bhavesh upon the prosecutrix.   The DNA report matched with 

the   other   two   accused   who   are   juveniles   and   sent   to   Children   Court. 

Though, the prosecutrix has not stated that the other two accused, who 

were present at the time when accused Bhavesh was committing rape with 

the prosecutrix, have also committed rape with her but DNA result clearly 

shows that they have also committed rape upon her. One cannot loose 

sight of the fact that the prosecutrix is minor girl of 7 years and she was 

taken on the shoulders from her jhuggi at about 2 am in the night when 

she was in sleep.   She was taken to a jungle.   May be due to sleep or 

trauma she could not notice that the other two accused persons had also 

committed rape with her, otherwise there was no reason for them to run 

away from the spot hearing the cries of prosecutrix after Bhavesh had 

committed   rape   upon   the   prosecutrix   after   tying   her   mouth   without 

satisfying their lust, and that to at the spot where there was no one else 

except the prosecutrix aged 7 years and the place is a jungle and lonely 



SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 18 of 21
 place and the time was of around 2 am in the night.   Further, the DNA 

report conclusively proves the presence and involvement of all the three 

accused in committing rape upon the prosecutrix.  The presence of all the 

three   accused   on   the   spot,   their   staying   back   at   the   spot   when   the 

prosecutrix was raped, their running away collectively after committing 

rape giving threat to her collectively and DNA report clearly prove that 

accused   Bhavesh   along   with two other accused Manan @ Manna and 

Sakir @ Sakil ( sent to JJB) in furtherance of their common intention has 

committed gang rape upon the prosecutrix. 
36.              Offence   of   Kidnapping,   Abduction   and   Criminal 

intimidation  under section 363/366/506 IPC:­

                 Section   363   of   IPC   defines   that   :­   whoever   kidnaps   any 

person   from   or   from   lawful   guardianship,   shall   be   punished   with 

imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven 

years, and shall also be liable to fine. 
                 The essential ingredients of section 366 of IPC are :­ 

                 (a) A person kidnaps or abducts any woman. 
                 (b) The act is done­

                 (i) with intent that she may be compelled to marry any person 

against her will, or

                  (ii) knowing it to be likely that she will be so compelled, or

                    (iii)   in   order   that   she   may   be   forced   or   seduced   to   illicit 

intercourse, or 



SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 19 of 21
                  (iv) knowing it to be likely that she will be so forced or 

seduced. 
 Section 506 IPC defines that:­ Whoever commits the offence 

of criminal intimidation shall be punished with imprisonment of either 

description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or 

with both.  
               If threat be to cause death or grievous hurt, etc.­  And if 

the threat be to cause death of grievous hurt, or to cause the destruction of 

any  property   by fire,  or  to  cause an offence punishable with death or 

imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment for a term which may extend 

to seven years, or to impute unchastity to a woman, shall be punished with 

imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven 

years, or with fine, or with both. 
               From   the   statement   of   the   prosecutrix   that   when   she   was 

sleeping in the night in her Jhuggi, accused Bhavesh @ Sameer had taken 

her to Jungle after lifting her on his shoulder and in the jungle she was 

raped   by   accused   Bhavesh   @   Sameer   in   the   presence   of   co­accused 

persons. From this statement it is proved that the accused had kidnapped 

prosecutrix from lawful guardianship of her parents so that she may be 

forced   or   seduced   to   illicit   intercourse.   From   the   statement   of   the 

prosecutrix that accused Bhavesh @ Sameer and other accused had also 

intimidated her to kill in case she disclosed about the incident to anyone 

also proves the ingredients of offence of criminal intimidation against the 



SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 20 of 21
 accused.  
37.            Defence of accused:­            Accused   has   stated   that   he   and 

maternal grandfather of prosecutrix are doing the work of collection of 

garbage   and   some   dispute   arose   between   them   on   account   of 

apportionment of the proceeds as he was demanding a higher share for 

himself which was refused by him whereupon he and his sons started 

started   quarreling   with   him.   The   said   incident   has   happened   on 

03.04.2010 and on the next day the police came and apprehended him in 

this   case   from   his   house.     To   prove   this   defence   the   accused   has   not 

produced any witness.   Hence, the defence is not proved. Moreover, the 

defence   of   the   accused   is   not   believable   in   view   of   the   convincing 

testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   which   is   duly   supported   by   the   medical 

evidence as well as by the DNA report.  
38.            In view of the above said discussion, prosecution has been 

fully able to prove its case against the accused Bhavesh @ Sameer and 

therefore, accused Bhavesh @ Sameer is held guilty and convicted for the 

offence under Section 363/366/376(2)(g)/506 r.w. Section 34 IPC.

ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT
ON 09.07.2013.

                                                         ( RENU BHATNAGAR )
                                                         DESIGNATED JUDGE
                                                         TADA/POTA/MCOCA
                                                       ASJ SE­01/NEW DELHI




SC No. 154/10          State Vs Bhavesh @ Sameer etc.   Page No. 21 of 21
 