1.                   The factual matrix to the prosecution case is that the DD No. 
34A was lodged at PS Mayur Vihar on 5.8.11 on the call of PCR that a girl 
aged 5­6 years is raped at house No. 19/79, 3rd  Floor, Trilok  Puri. On this 
complaint   ASI   Ami   Chand   (PW7)   reached   at   the   spot   alongwith   lady   Ct. 
Babita   (PW1),   complainant   Mala   (PW3)   met   him   there.   PW7   took 
complainant PW3 and her daughter (hereinafter referred as prosecutrix) to 
LBS   Hospital  for   medical   examination.   PW7   recorded   statement   of   PW3, 
prepared rukka and got the FIR registered. In her complaint PW3 mentioned 
that on 5.8.11 her daughter aged 5 years went in the street to play and at 
about   8.20   p.m   she   came   back   weeping.   On   being   asked   she   told   that 
accused   who   lives   in   their   neighbourhood   took   her   on   the   roof   on   the 
pretext of giving her some article to eat, removed her underwear and did 
'Galat Kaam' with her, both from front side and back side. Her daughter was 
unable to walk and expressing pain on her private parts. She found some 
blood   spots   and   swelling   on   her   private   parts   and   made   a   call   at   100 
number. 
2.                   ASI  Veera  Sharma  (PW8) took   over  further   investigation.  She 
reached at the spot and at the instance of PW3 prepared site plan, arrested 


FIR No.  191/11                                                        page    1 of page 10
 accused and recorded his  disclosure statement. Got the accused medically 
examined.   During   investigation   she   sent   the   exhibits   to   FSL   and   filed 
chargesheet against the accused u/s. 376/377 IPC. 
3.                   Charge   u/s.   376/377   IPC   was   given   to   accused,   to   which   he 
pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 
4.                    To prove  its case prosecution examined 11 witnesses.  PW1 HC 
Babita   had  joined   the  investigation   with   PW7.   She  proved  seizure  memo 
Ex.PW1/A   vide   which   sexual   kit,   envelope   containing   inner   clothes   of 
prosecutrix  and sample seal given by doctor were seized by IO. PW2 Smt. 
Kamlesh   Kumar,   Principal,   MCD   Primary   Girls   School   proved   admission 
form,   original   affidavit   and   original   admission   register   of  prosecutrix  as 
Ex.PW2/A to Ex.PW2/C. PW3 Smt. Mala is the complainant, she proved her 
complaint Ex.PW3/A. PW4 is the prosecutrix. PW5 Dr. S.B. Jangpangi, CMO, 
LBS Hospital  proved MLC of accused as Ex.PW5/A. PW6 HC Udaivir Singh 
was working as duty officer and proved FIR Ex.PW6/A and endorsement on 
rukka   Ex.PW6/B.   PW7   ASI   Ami   Chand   is   the   first   IO,   he   proved   rukka 
Ex.PW7/A.  PW8  ASI  Veera  Sharma  is the  second  IO,  she  proved  site  plan 
Ex.PW8/A,  arrest memo, personal search memo and disclosure statement of 
accused as Ex.PW1/B, Ex.PW8/B and Ex.PW8/C, seizure memo Ex.PW8/D 
vide   which   four   pulandas   given   by   doctor   after   medical   examination   of 
prosecutrix were seized. PW9 Dr. Neera Singh, SR (Obgy Department),  LBS 
Hospital proved MLC of prosecutrix as Ex.PW9/A. PW10 Sh. Kaushal Kumar, 
Senior   Scientific   Officer,   CFSL   proved   his   report   Ex.PW10/A.   PW11   Sh. 
Suresh Kumar Singhla, Senior Scientific Officer,  CFSL also proved his report 
Ex.PW11/A.
5.                   On   the   basis   of   the   incriminating   evidence   against   the 
accused , his statement was recorded u/s. 313 CrPC wherein he denied the 
entire   prosecution   evidence   against   him   and   took   the   defence   of   false 
implication. He took the defence that on 5.8.11 he had gone for his work at 
W­10, Noida Garment Factory and returned back at 9 p.m. At 9.30 p.m he 


FIR No.  191/11                                                        page    2 of page 10
 was arrested by the police from his house and falsely implicated in this case. 
There   is   another   boy   named   Gulu   of   the   age   of   his   son   residing   in   his 
neighbourhood. He never had any acquaintance with PW3 and his family. 
Despite opportunity he did not lead any evidence in defence. 
6.                   Heard arguments of Sh. I.H. Siddiqui, Ld. APP for State and Sh. 
B.S. Gautam, Ld. Defence counsel for accused.  Perused the case file and the 
evidence led by prosecution. 
7.                   The Ld. APP submitted that statement of complainant PW3 and 
prosecutrix PW4 are consistent and accused has failed to cause any dent to 
their   credibility.   It   is   stated   that  prosecutrix  while   deposing   as   PW4   has 
categorically stated that accused had removed her cloths and raped her. It is 
stated that MLC of the  prosecutrix supports her statement.  It is stated that 
prosecution has been able to prove its case. 
8.                   On the other hand Ld. defence counsel on behalf of accused 
submitted that statement of complainant PW3 is self contradictory and does 
not   inspire   confidence.   It   is   urged   that  prosecutrix  is   too   young   to 
understand  the  alleged  act done  by  accused  and  her  statement does not 
inspire   confidence.  It   is   stated   that  there   is   another   boy   named   Gulu, 
residing   in   the   vicinity   and   because   of   this   confusion   complainant   and 
prosecutrix has named accused in this case. 
9.                   Complainant PW3 has reiterated the complaint made by her to 
the police. She deposed that  prosecutrix  told her that accused took her in 
the latrine at the 2nd floor and did "Noo­Noo" with her and she noticed blood 
on the vagina of her daughter. She further deposed that accused had also 
committed   carnal   inter­course   with   her   daughter.   She   deposed   that   her 
daughter   told   her   that   when   accused   committed   the   offence   she   was 
weeping and on that accused slapped her and scolded her. She also check 
the anus of her daughter and there was a cut mark and swelling on private 
parts of her daughter. She called the accused but he did not come out. Wife 
of   accused   came   out   from   her   room   and   she   told   her   that   accused   had 


FIR No.  191/11                                                        page    3 of page 10
 committed rape upon her daughter. 
10.                  PW3 identified underwear and inner of her daughter which are 
collectively Ex.P1. During cross PW3 stated that she knew the accused two 
months prior to the incident and house of the accused was at a distance of 
one house from her house. She denied the suggestion that her landlord got 
vacated the rented room from her and it was given to another tenant at the 
instance of accused and due to this reason she has falsely implicated the 
accused in this case. She denied the suggestion that her daughter did not tell 
her anything against the accused and she is deposing false. 
11.                  After  conducting competency test of  prosecutrix  as provided 
u/s. 118 of Indian Evidence Act, her statement was recorded without oath in 
question­answer form. As the prosecutrix was just aged 6 years it was found 
appropriate   that   instead   of   narrative   form   her   statement   be   recorded   in 
question­answer   form.   For   better   appreciation   of   her   statement,   it   is   re­
produced here  as follows :­ 
Q.          What is your name?
Ans.        Victim   (correct   name   was   given   but   it   is   changed   for   this 
judgment). 
                   (In view of the above questions put to the victim and the manner 
in which she replied, I am satisfied that she has got rational understanding 
and can make rational statement. Her  statement is being recorded without 
oath).
Q.    Do you know who is this man (accused is pointed and shown to the 
witness after removing the partition?
A.   Witness nodded her head in affirmative and stated that he is father of 
Golu. 
Q. What was done by Golu's papa with you?
A.  Noo­Noo. 
Q.  Where Golu's papa had taken you?
A. In latrine. 
Q.  If he removed his clothes?
A. No. 
Q. If he removed your clothes?
A. Yes. 
Q.  Did you feel pain and bleed from anywhere?
A.   this question was repeated to the witness by me, by Ld. APP and Ms. 
Neha   Raj   ,   Advocate   from   DCW   (Delhi   Commission   for  Woman).      The 
witness nodded her head in affirmative stating that she felt pain and also 
bleeded but beyond this point she did not say anything. 
Q. Did you cry at that time?
A. Witness nodded her head in affirmative.
Q. If you were slapped by Golu's papa?
A. The witness failed to give any answer.   On putting question again she 

FIR No.  191/11                                                        page    5 of page 10
 nodded her head in affirmative. 
Q. Did you tell everything to your mother?
A.  Witness nodded her head in affirmative. 
Q. Were you taken to hospital?
A.  Witness nodded her head in affirmative.
Q. Who took you to hospital?
A. Mummy. 
Q. Did police uncle also accompany you?
A. Witness nodded her head in affirmative.
Q. If your cloths got smeared in blood?
A. Witness nodded her head in affirmative.
Q. If in the hospital you were given other clothes to wear?
A. I was given other clothes in the hospital. 
Q. If you can identify you clothes?
A.  Witness nodded her head in affirmative.
                   To check if on putting any question witness nods her head in 
affirmative, she is asked if her mother beats her.  Witness nodded her head in 
denial. 
XXX by Sh. Subhash Chauhan, Ld. Defence counsel for accused. 
Q: Why have you come to Court today?
Ans. Today I have come to Court to depose.  
Q. Whether there was electricity in the house when father of Golu had taken 
you with him?
A. Witness nodded her head in affirmative. 
Q. Who was present in the house at the time when you were taken by father 
of Golu in latrine?
A. Aunty was present in the room at lower (neechey) floor. 
Q. Had you greeted Aunty when you were taken by father of Golu?
A. No. 
Q. Who else were present on the roof where latrine is constructed?
Q.  Whether  any  children from  the  neighbourhood  had  come  on the  roof 
when you cried?
A. No. 
Q. Whether your mother and father were present in the house when you 
come back to your house after the incident?
A. Only my mother was present at my house, Papa had gone for work. 
Q. Had you told to your mother about the incident?
A. I had told to my mother about the incident.
Q. You were not taken to the latrine by father of Golu and someone else had 
taken you there?
A. I was taken by the father of Golu to latrine.                       
12.                  Ex.PW9/A is the  MLC of the  prosecutrix, as per  the  MLC on 
local examination thigh perineum was stained with clotted blood and some 
fresh and hymen was not intact, perianal  swelling with gapped and multiple 
superficial cut with abrasions, not actively bleeding. As per PW9 Dr. Neera 
Singh during examination of prosecutrix she took 12 samples. 
13.                  PW7 ASI Ami Chand is the first IO who reached at the spot and 
took  prosecutrix  alongwith   PW1   HC   Babita   to  LBS   Hospital  for   medical 
examination. Ex.PW1/A is the seizure memo prepared by her, as per which 
he had seized sexual assault kit and an envelope containing inner clothes of 
prosecutrix,   both   duly   sealed   with   the   seal   of   the   hospital.   Further 
investigation was conducted by PW8 ASI Veera Sharma. She has deposed 
that   after   arrest   of   the   accused   he   was   sent   to  LBS   Hospital  for   medical 
examination. Ex.PW8/D is the seizure memo prepared by her vide which she 
had seized four pulandas given to her by Ct. Sonu and duly sealed with the 
seal     of   hospital.   As   per   the  seizure   memo   one   pulanda   was   containing 
undergarments   of   the   accused.   As   per   PW8   during   investigation   she   had 
sent pulandas to FSL for examination. 
14.                  Ex.PW10/A is the Biological examination report and Ex.PW11/A 

FIR No.  191/11                                                        page    7 of page 10
 is the serological examination report. As per Ex.PW10/A human semen was 
detected on the exhibits­ 1e, 1g, 1i(I), 1i(II), 1i(III), 2a and 3. Exhibit­1i(I). 
Exhibit­1i(II) and  Exhibit­1i(III) are  the   cotton  wool  swab  and  two  micro 
slides   having   whitish   smear   taken   by   doctor   in   rectal   examination   of 
prosecutrix. Exhibit ­2a  is the  underwear  of the victim.   Exhibit ­3 is the 
semen sample of the accused.  Exhibit ­1e is the sample taken by doctor on 
cotton wool swab of cervical mucus of the prosecutrix. Ex.1g is the sample of 
culture taken by doctor and cotton wool swab. 
15.                  As per serological examination report Ex.PW11/A, the semen 
found   on   Ex.1e,   1g,   1i(I)   and   2a   (samples   of  prosecutrix   taken   during 
medical examination and her underwear) was found having same group i.e. 
"B Group" as semen sample of accused. 
16.                  One of the main contention raised by Ld. defence counsel is 
that  statement  of PW3  and  prosecutrix PW4  are  in contradiction to  each 
other   which   renders   prosecution   case   under   shadow   of   doubt.   Except 
merely   asserting   that   there   exist   contradiction,   Ld.   defence   counsel   has 
failed   to   point   out   any   alleged   contradiction.   Careful   perusal   of   these 
statements   reveal   that   there   is   absolutely   no   contradiction   in   both   these 
statements. It   is pertinent to mention here that as per admission register 
and other admission record of prosecutrix Ex.PW2/A to Ex.PW2/C,  her date 
of birth is 16.3.06. She was just five years and 5 months old at the time of this 
incident and was 6 years of age when her statement was recorded by this 
Court.   The   other   contention   raised   by   Ld.   defence   counsel   is   that 
prosecutrix  is too young to understand the alleged act and her statement 
recorded by this Court proves that she was tutored by her mother i.e. PW1 or 
other family members or by police to falsely implicate the accused in this 
case. I agree with this contention of Ld. defence counsel that  prosecutrix 
being of this tender age was too young to understand the act committed by 
accused with her. This is the reason prosecutrix in her examination has only 
stated that accused has done "Noo­Noo" with her. In addition to that she has 


FIR No.  191/11                                                        page    8 of page 10
 also stated that accused had taken her in latrine, removed her clothes, she 
felt pain, she cried and was slapped by accused. To majority of the questions 
put   to   her,   instead   of   giving   verbal   reply  prosecutrix  answered   these 
questions   by   nodding   her   head   in   affirmative.   It   is   further   relevant   to 
mention here that since witness replied most of the questions by nodding 
her   head   in   affirmative,   this   Court   put   her   to   check   if   on   putting   any 
question   always   she   nods   her   head   in   affirmative.   She   was   asked   if   her 
mother beats her. In answer to this question she nodded her head in denial. 
Though PW3 i.e. mother of prosecutrix was not present at the spot but she is 
an   important   witness   proving   circumstances   as   immediately   after   her 
release prosecutrix had come to her crying and had complained to her that 
accused had taken her to the latrine at 2nd floor and did "Noo­Noo" with her. 
17.                  What is the meaning of this "Noo­Noo"  prosecutrix  being too 
young, elaboration of the alleged act of accused is not expected from her. 
The   statement   of   PW3,   medical   evidence   and   CFSL  report   explains   what 
prosecutrix means with "Noo­Noo". 
18.                  The MLC of prosecutrix  Ex.PW9/A, the CFSL report Ex.PW10/A 
and Ex.PW11/A corroborate statement of complainant PW3 and prosecutrix 
PW4. The only conclusion which can be drawn from presence of semen of 
the same group as of the accused, on the underwear of the prosecutrix and 
on the slides prepared during rectal examination of prosecutrix, is that it was 
accused   who   had   subjected   prosecutrix  to   horrific   and   sadistic   sexual 
assault. 
19.                  The   other   contention   raised   by   Ld.   defence   counsel   is   that 
there   is   another   boy   named   Golu   of   the   age   of   his   son,   residing   in   the 
vicinity   and   because   of   this   confusion   complainant   and  prosecutrix  has 
named accused in this case. No such suggestion has been put by the accused 
to   complainant   (PW3)   and   prosecutrix   (PW4)   during   their   cross­
examination. Accused was residing in the vicinity to the house of prosecutrix 
and accused was not an unknown person to prosecutrix. 
FIR No.  191/11                                                        page    9 of page 10
 20.                  The other contention raised by Ld. defence counsel is that as 
per complainant (PW3) and  prosecutrix (PW4), this incident took place in 
the latrine of second floor but as per prosecution case, reflected in site plan 
Ex.PW8/A, the incident took place at point 'A' of the roof of house No. 19/44, 
Trilok Puri, 19 Block, which is not the latrine. It is stated that this is a major 
contradiction   in the prosecution case which   creates shadow of doubt on 
the   authenticity   and   credibility   of   the   prosecutrix.   Prosecutrix   has 
specifically stated that accused had taken her in the latrine and there he did 
"Noo­Noo"   with   her.   As   per   site   plan   Ex.PW8/A   accused   had   raped 
prosecutrix  at the place mark 'A'. What is this place mark 'A' has not been 
elaborated by the IO PW8 who has prepared this site plan.  A latrine is also 
shown in the site plan situated nearby to this place 'A' mark in the site plan. 
Though it is a contradiction vis­a­vis statement of complainant (PW3) and 
prosecutrix  but it is immaterial discrepancy not affecting the prosecution 
case   or   credibility   of  prosecutrix  in   any   manner,   specifically   when   other 
credible   and   trustworthy   evidence   including   CFSL   report   supporting 
statement of prosecutrix stands duly proved. 
21.                  In view of the aforesaid reasons, it is held that prosecution has 
been able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt against the accused for 
the   commission  of  offences  u/s.  376/377  IPC.   Accused   is held   guilty   and 
convicted for these offences. 
ANNOUNCED IN OPEN COURT 
ON   17.07.2013
                                                                                            (SANJAY GARG)
                                                                          ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE(EAST) ­ 01
                                                                      KARKARDOOMA COURTS : DELHI




FIR No.  191/11                                                        page    10 of page 10
       IN THE COURT  OF  SANJAY GARG: ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE: 
                         01(EAST) : KARKARDOOMA COURT: DELHI



SC No.                                                          143/11
FIR No.                                                         191/11
PS.                                                             Mayur Vihar 
US.                                                              376/377 IPC 


State Vs.             Deepak Rai  S/o. Sh. J.P. Rai,
                     R/o. 19/44, Trilok Puri, Delhi 


ORDER ON SENTENCE 



1.          I have heard arguments of   Sh. I. H. Siddiqui Ld. Addl. PP for the 
State and Sh. B.S. Gautum, Ld. Defence   Counsel for    for convict  Deepak 
Rai on quantum of sentence.  
2.          Ld.   APP   submits   that   keeping   in   view   gravity   of   the   offences 
maximum punishment be awarded to the convict.  Ld. Defence counsel for 
convict submits that the convict is first offender, not involved in any  other 
criminal   case.   It   is   stated   that   he   is   34   years   of   age,   having   a   family 
constituting his wife, two minor children and old father   dependent upon 
him for their livelihood. It is stated that convict is in J/C since beginning.   It 
is stated that he is the sole bread   earner of the family and requested that 
lenient view be taken against him while awarding sentence.
3.        The victim in this case is just aged  about five and half  years  and she 
was   subjected   to   horrific   and   sadistic   sexual   assault.   A   recent   report   by 
Asian   Centre   for  Women   Rights   says   that   incidents   of   child   rape   have 
multiplied   in   the   last   decade.  The   recent   horrific   incidents   of   rape   have 
created a furore in the society.  It appears across the nation the childhood is 

FIR No.  191/11                                                        page    11 of page 10
 at risk. The children of this age are vulnerable and are easy prey to such 
sexual   assaults.   In   view   of   these   circumstances   the   convict   deserves   no 
leniency.   Accordingly he is sentenced as under:­

          For the offence u/s. 376 IPC he is sentenced to undergo RI for 10 
years     and   shall   also   be   liable   to   pay   fine   of   Rs.  2,000/­   in   default   to 
undergo SI for two months. For the offence u/s. 377 IPC he is sentenced to 
undergo RI for 5 years  and shall also be liable to pay fine of Rs.1,000/­ in 
default   to   undergo   SI   for   one   month.     Both    the   sentences     to   run 
concurrently. 
4.        Benefit   of   section   428   Cr.   PC   be   given   to   the   convict.     Copy   of 
judgment and this order be given to the convict free of cost.  Copy of order 
be sent separately to DLSA, East with a direction to pay compensation to 
the victim as per the provisions of guidelines of Delhi Government under 
Victim Compensation Scheme.
          File be consigned to record room.   
