Case of Prosecution:

1.            On   04.10.2010   after   receiving   a   telephonic   information   from 

police   station  H.N.  Din  SI   Kamini  Gupta  reached  there   where   HC   Krishan 

SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                Page No. 1 of 22
 produced   MLC   of   the   prosecutrix   namely   'X'   (  name   withheld   to   keep   her 

identity confidential ) aged around 10 years. HC Krishan Kumar further told 

that prosecutrix along with NGO members has already been sent to Prayas, 

near Batra Hospital.  Subsequently, SI Kamini Gupta reached at Prayas hospital 

and  took   her   into   possession   on   superdari.     Thereafter,  she   along   with   HC 

Krishan took prosecutrix to Child Welfare committee, Lajpat Nagar, Delhi and 

recorded the statement of prosecutrix in the absence of NGO Batter Fly Child 

Helpline staff.  After recording the statement of prosecutrix, case under Section 

376(II) of IPC was registered against the accused Wahidur Rehman.  During the 

investigation, site plan was prepared at the instance of prosecutrix.  Statement 

of witnesses were recorded. On 06.10.2010, prosecutrix was produced before 

the Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 

of Cr.P. C but prosecutrix refused to give her statement.  Subsequently, as per 

the directions of the Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate, prosecutrix was ordered to 

be produced before the Child counselor or Child Psychiatrist.  Section 376 (II)

(f) of IPC was added in the charge sheet.  Thereafter, Statement of prosecutrix 

under   Section   164   of   Cr.P.C   was   got   recorded   by   the   Investigating   officer. 

Accused was arrested.  His Personal search and arrest memo was prepared by 

the   Investigating   officer.     Accused   was   got   medically   examined   by   the 

Investigating   officer.     TIP   of   the   accused   was   also   got   conducted   by   the 

Investigating officer.  Exhibits were sent to CFSL, Rohini and after completion 

of investigation, charge sheet was filed under Section 376 (II)(f) of IPC against 

the accused in the court.
2.              Since the offence under Section 376 of IPC is exclusively triable 


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                       Page No. 2 of 22
 by   the   Court   of   Sessions,   therefore,   after   supply   of   documents,   Ld. 

Metropolitan Magistrate committed the case to the court of Sessions.

Charge against the accused:
3.              Prima facie case under section 376 (2)(f) of IPC was made out 

against the accused. Charge under Section 376(2)(f) of IPC was framed upon 

the   accused   by   my   Ld.   Predecessor   vide   order   dated   31.01.2011   to   which 

accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.  
Witnesses Examined:
4.              In support of its case, prosecution has examined 16 witnesses in 

all.   The brief summary of the deposition of the prosecution witnesses is as 

under:
Material witnesses:­

5.              PW­1 is prosecutrix herself.   She stated that many days ago she 

was alone at Dargah Nizamuddin and her mother was in Sheohara.  It was night 

time at that time.  On that day, one person wearing kurta paijama came to her 

and   took   her   to   jungle.     Thereafter,   he   removed   her   clothes   and   started 

misbehaving( badtamiji ki) with her.  He also slapped her and put his private 

organ in her private part. She told the incident to the police vide Ex.PW2/A. 

She was taken to the hospital and got medically examined by the police.  She 

has duly identified the accused in the court.  
6.              PW­16 W/SI Kamini Gupta, Investigating officer of the case who 

stated that he arrested the accused, got conducted the medical examination and 

statement of prosecutrix and proved all the memos etc. 



SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                     Page No. 3 of 22
 Formal witnesses:­

7.             PW­2   is   Mohd.   Usman   Ali,   Member   of   Butterfly   Child 

Helpline,NGO.   He stated that on 04.10.2010 the present case came to their 

NGO and investigating officer of the case in the presence of him, Ruchi and 

one   HC,   recorded   the   statement   of   prosecutrix   and   proved   the   statement 

Ex.PW2/A.     Investigating   officer   sent  HC   to   police   station   Nizamuddin   for 

registration of the case.  He along with aforesaid persons went to Dargah on the 

pointing out of prosecutrix but no clue could be found and they returned back 

to police station.  
8.             PW­3 is Ruchi, Member of Butterfly Child Helpline, NGO who 

also deposed on the lines of PW­2. 
9.             PW­4   is   Ms.   Megha   Bhatnagar,   Councilor   of   Prayas.   On 

11.10.2012 she along with Preeti, Councilor of Butterfly Child Helpline along 

with Investigating officer had gone to Saket court and child Tarana was also 

with the Investigating officer.  Outside the court chamber, child Tarana narrated 

the whole incident by signs.  She told them that one person had taken her on a 

cycle to jungle and asked her to open her salwar.  She refused to do the same 

and that person slapped her and then committed rape upon her.   PW­4 has 

further stated that prosecutrix was not knowing the name of the person but she 

can identify him.  
10.            PW­5   is   Sh.   Sanjeev   Kumar,   Metropolitan   Magistrate   who 

conducted the TIP proceedings of accused Wahidur Rehman vide Ex.PW5/B.  

11.            PW­6 is Sh. Vikrant Vaid, Metropolitan Magistrate who recorded 

the statement of prosecutrix under Section 164 of Cr.P.C and proved all the 

SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                   Page No. 4 of 22
 memos in this regard.  
12.             PW­9 is HC Dhiraj Kumar, Duty officer who recorded the formal 

FIR Ex.PW9/A and endorsed rukka vide Ex.PW9/B.  
13.             PW­10 is Ct. Mausami who has joined the investigation of the 

case along with Investigating officer and Ct. Raj Kumar and got recorded the 

statement of prosecutrix under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. 

14.             PW­11 is Ct. Satish Kumar who along with IO and L/Ct. Manisha 

had   gone   to   the   Prayas   (NGO)   and   took   prosecutrix   to   Tihar   Jail   for   the 

purpose of TIP proceedings.  
15.             PW­12 is Ct. Dhirender who has joined the investigation of the 

case along with the Investigating officer, got accused medically examined and 

proved all the memos in this regard. 
16.             PW­13 is Ct. Padam Singh who has joined the investigation of 

this  case  with  the  investigating  officer,  apprehended  the   accused,  medically 

examined the accused and proved all the memos in this regard. 

17.             PW­14 is HC Ram Chander who made entry in register no.19 vide 

Ex.PW14/A and Ex.PW14/B and proved on record road certificate Ex.PW14/C. 

18.             PW­15   is   HC   Krishan   Kumar   who   took   into   possession   two 

pullandas and one seal given by Ct. Vinod Kumar and handed over the same 

along with rukka and copy of FIR to Investigating officer.  

Medical witnesses:­

19.             PW­7   is   Dr.   Prajnanika   Gurung   who   examined   the 

patient/prosecutrix and prepared the MLC report Ex.PW7/A.  



SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                        Page No. 5 of 22
 20.             PW­8 is Dr. Hari Prasad who examined the patient/accused and 

proved on record the MLC Ex.PW8/A. 
21.             I have heard Ld. Defence counsel for accused as well as Ld. APP  

for state and have carefully perused the record. 
Arguments of Ld. APP for state:

22.             It is argued by the Ld. Additional Public Prosecutor for the state 

that the prosecutrix has supported the case of the prosecution.  Her testimony 

could not be shattered in the cross examination and is duly supported by the 

medical record. It is stated that there ­are no chance of false implication of the 

accused by the prosecutrix who is just 8­9 years of age.  

                Further,   the   officials   of   NGO,   Butterfly   have   categorically 

deposed that the statement of the prosecutrix under section 161 of Cr.P.C was 

recorded in their presence and in the said statement also the prosecutrix has 

referred to the offence of rape committed upon her.  Hence, it is argued that the 

offence   against   the   accused   is   proved   beyond   doubt   and   he   is   liable   to   be 

convicted. 
Arguments of Ld. counsel for accused:­


23.             It is argued that the accused was arrested after about 12­13 days 

of the incident at the pointing out of one Asif Khan who has not been produced 

by the prosecution in the court.  Further, the testimony of the prosecutrix is not 

reliable   because   in   her   statement   under   section   161   Cr.P.C   she   has   not 

mentioned about the description of the accused.   It is further argued that in the 

statement under section 164 of Cr.P.C the prosecutrix could not speak a single 


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                         Page No. 6 of 22
 word due to which the proceedings under section 164 of Cr.P.C were dropped 

without   the   examination   of   the   prosecutrix   which   shows   the   falsity   of   the 

statement of the prosecutrix .  Further, there is discrepancy in the statement of 

the IO who has deposed in her cross examination that Asif Khan had signed on 

the seizure memo of the recovered clothes from the accused but the seizure 

memo Ex.PW13/E reveals that there are no signatures of Asif Khan.   Hence, 

the accused is falsely implicated and is liable to be acquitted.  

Conclusion:­

24.             Before appreciating the facts of this case,it is necessary to know the 

ingredients of the offence by resorting to the provisions of sec.375 read with 

sec.376 IPC. Section 375 Rape provides:­ " A man is said to commit "rape" 

who,   except   in   the   case   hereinafter   excepted,   has   sexual  intercourse   with   a 

woman   under   circumstances   falling   under   any   of   the   six   following 

descriptions:­

                 First­ Against her will.
                 Secondly­ Without her consent.
                 Thirdly­  With her consent, when her consent has been obtained 

by putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of death or of 

hurt.
                 Fourthly­  With her consent, when the man knows that he is not 

her   husband,   and   that   her   consent   is   given   because   she   believes   that   he   is 

another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married.

                 Fifthly­  With   her   consent,   when,   at   the   time   of   giving   such 

consent, by reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the administration 


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                          Page No. 7 of 22
 by   him   personally   or   through   another   of   any   stupefying   or   unwholesome 

substance, she is unable to understand the nature and consequences of that to 

which she gives consent.  
                 Sixthly­  With   or   without   her   consent,   when   she   under   sixteen 

years of age. 
                 Explanation­  Penetration   is   sufficient   to   constitute   the   sexual 

intercourse necessary to the offence of rape.  
                 Exception­  Sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the 

wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.  

                   376.  Punishment  for   rape­  (1)  Whoever,  except  in   the  cases 

provided   for   by   sub­section   (2),   commits   rape   shall   be   punished   with 

imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less than seven 

years but which may be for life or for a term which may extend to ten years and 

shall also be liable to fine unless the woman raped is his own wife and is not 

under   twelve   years   of   age,   in   which   case,   he   shall   be   punished   with 

imprisonment of either description for a terms which may extend to two years 

or with fine or with both; Provided that the court may, for adequate and special 

reasons to be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment 

for a terms of less than seven years.   
       (2) Whoever,­

                 (a) being a police officer commits rape­ 

                 (i) within the limits of the police station to which he is appointed; 

                 or 

                 (ii) in the premises of any station house whether or not situated in 


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                      Page No. 8 of 22
 the police station to which he is appointed ; or 

                (iii)  on   a   woman   in   his   custody   or   in   the   custody   of  a   police 

officer subordinate to him; or

                (b) being a public servant, takes advantage of his official position 

and commits rape on a woman in his custody as such public servant or in the 

custody of a public servant subordinate to him; or

                (c) being on the management or on the staff of a jail, remand 

home or other place of custody established by or under any law for the time 

being in force or of a woman's or children's institution takes advantage of his 

official position and commits rape on any inmate of such jail, remand home, 

place or institution; or 

                (d) being on the management or on the staff of a hospital, takes 

advantage   of   his   official   position   and   commits   rape   on   a   woman   in   that 

hospital; or 

                (e) commits rape on a woman knowing her to be pregnant; or 

                (f) commits rape on a woman when she is under twelve years of 

age ; or 

                (g)   commits   gang   rape,   shall   be   punished   with   rigorous 

imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years but which may 

be for life and shall also be liable to fine:
                Provided that the court may, for adequate and special reasons to 

be mentioned in the judgment, impose a sentence of imprisonment of either 

description for a terms of less than ten years.
                Explanation1.­   Where   a   women   is   raped   by   one   or   more   in   a 


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                           Page No. 9 of 22
 group of persons acting in furtherance of their common intention, each of the 

persons shall be deemed to have committed gang rape within the meaning of 

this sub­section.  
                Explanation2.­   "Women's   or   children's   institution"   means   an 

institution , whether called an orphanage or a home for neglected women or 

children or a widow's home or by any other name, which is established and 

maintained for the reception and care of women or children.

                Explanation3.­ "Hospital" means the precincts of the hospital and 

includes   the   precincts   of   any   institution   for   the   reception   and   treatment   of 

persons   during   convalescence   or   of   persons   requiring   medical   attention   or 

rehabilitation.
                "Rape" is the act of physically forcing a woman to have sexual 

intercourse: an act of sexual intercourse that is forced upon a woman against 

her will.  "Statutory rape" is a sexual intercourse with a girl under the age of 

consent, which age varies in different States from ten to eighteen years. 

                The offence of rape in its simplest term is 'the ravishment of a 

woman,   without   her   consent,   by   force,   fear   or   fraud',   or   as   'the   carnal 

knowledge of a woman by force against her will? 'Rape' or 'Raptus' is when a 

man hath carnal knowledge of a woman by force and against her will (Co. lett. 

123­b);   or   as   expressed   more   fully,   'rape'   is   the   carnal   knowledge   of   any 

woman, above the age of particular years, against her will; or of a woman 

child, under that age, with or against her will. Section 375 IPC defines rape. 

This Section requires the essentials:­

                     1.  Sexual intercourse by a man with woman.

SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                       Page No. 10 of 22
                       2. The sexual intercourse must be under circumstances falling 

under any of the six clauses in Section 375 IPC.  
25.                   In  MANU/SC/7825/2008 Moti Lal vs. State of M.P., the Apex  

Court had observed that :­

                   "a   rapist   not   only   violates   the   victim's   privacy   and   personal  

integrity, but inevitably causes serious psychological as well as physical harm  

in the process. Rape is not merely a physical assault ­­ it is often destructive of  

the whole personality of the victim. A murderer destroys the physical body of  

his victim, a rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless  female.   The    court,  

therefore,     shoulders       a     great   responsibility   while   trying   an   accused   on  

charges of rape. They must deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. The  

Courts should examine the broader probabilities of a case and not get swayed  

by minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of the  

prosecutrix, which are not of a fatal nature, to throw out an otherwise reliable  

prosecution case. "
26.              The two issues to be determined on the basis of evidence adduced 

by   the   prosecution   are   the   age   of   the   prosecutrix   and   whether   she   was   a 

consenting party to the incident or not.  
27.               Age of the prosecutrix:­     In the present case, accused has been 

charged   under   Section   376(2)(f)   of   IPC   for   committing   rape   upon   the 

prosecutrix aged about 10 years with her consent.   Section 376(2)(f) of IPC 

provides for higher degree of punishment for the offence of rape committed 

with   the   girl   who   is   under   12   years   of   age.     As   regard   to   the   age   of   the 

prosecutrix, the prosecution has not produced any school certificate or birth 

SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                             Page No. 11 of 22
 certificate of the prosecutrix to prove her age.   The prosecution has got the 

ossification test of the prosecutrix which was conducted as per the ossification 

report given by the Radiologist of AIIMS.   The age of the prosecutrix was 

between 10.2 years to 13 years.  However, the prosecution did not summon any 

competent doctor to prove the opinion of the Radiologist.  But being the expert 

opinion,  the  court can  itself  go  through  the  same  to  form  an  opinion.  In  a 

similar matter when faced with a similar situation where the prosecution has 

not   duly   proved   the   age   ossification   report   by   summoning   the   concerned 

doctor, Hon'ble Justice Ravinder Bhatt and  Justice S.P. Garg of Hon'ble Delhi 

High   in   the   case   State   of  NCT  of   Delhi   Vs   Shiv   and   Others,   Crl.L.P.   No. 

172/2008 decided on 16.03.2012 has held as under:­

            " Ossification test was conducted to determine the age of  

            the   prosecutrix.     Her   age   was   opined   between   14   to   16  

            years as per report Ex.Pw8/B.  This report was prepared on  

            19.02.2003 by Dr. Rahul Garg.   However, the prosecution  

            did   not   produce   him   to   prove   his   opinion   and   only  

            examined   one   M.D.   Joshi,   Record   clerk,   DDU   Hospital,  

            who merely identified his handwriting and signatures.  The  

            prosecution did not summon any other competent doctor to  

            prove the opinion given by Dr. Rahul Garg.   Even if the  

            report Ex.Pw8/B is taken at its face value, considering the  

            possibility   of   an   error   of   plus   minus   two   years   in   the  

            opinion rendered by radiological examination, it cannot be  

            concluded   with   certainty   that   the   prosecutrix   was   below  


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                       Page No. 12 of 22
              sixteen years on the date of incident."
                 If   the   expert   report   is   taken   at   its   face   value,   considering   the 

possibility   of   an   error   of   plus   minus   2   years   in   the   opinion   rendered   by 

radiologist   examination,   it   cannot   be   concluded   with   certainty   that   the 

prosecutrix was below 12 years on the date of incident.  In Jaimala Vs Home 

Secretary, Govt. of J&K   ( 1982) SCC 1296, Hon'ble Supreme court of India 

has opined :

                 Though on reducing 2 years, the age of the prosecutrix would be 

less  than   12 years  however, as  is  the  settled  law, whether  two  opinions  are 

possible, the one favouring the accused is to be taken. Hence, I conclude that 

the   age   of   the   prosecutrix   at   the   time   of   incident   was   above   12   years   but 

certainly below 16 years. 
28.  Consent of the prosecutrix and other ingredients of the offence:­  

                  The entire foundation to bring home the charge of rape rests on the 

statement of the prosecutrix who is just aged about 8­9 years.   It needs no 

elaboration that a conviction can be based on the uncorroborated evidence of 

the prosecutrix if the same inspires confidence.   It will be useful to refer to the 

observations of Apex Court in the case titled as Radhu Vs State of Madhya 

Pradesh 2007, Crl. Law Journal 4704 wherein Hon'ble Supreme court has held 

that:­

              " It is now well settled that a finding of guilt in a case of  


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                           Page No. 13 of 22
          rape, can be based on the uncorroborated evidence of the  

         prosecutrix. The very nature of offence makes it difficult to  

         get   direct   corroborating   evidence.   The   evidence   of   the  

         prosecutrix should not be rejected on the basis of minor  

         discrepancies   and   contradictions.   If   the   victim   of   rape  

         states on oath that she was forcibly subjected to sexual  

         intercourse, her statement will normally be accepted, even  

         if   it   is   uncorroborated,   unless   the   material   on   record  

         requires drawing of an inference that there was consent or  

         that   the   entire   incident   was   improbable   or   imaginary.  

         Even if there is consent, the act will still be a 'rape', if the  

         girl is under 16 years of age. It is also well settled that  

         absence of injuries on the private parts of the victim will  

         not   by   itself   falsify   the   case   of   rape,   nor   construed   as  

         evidence of consent. Similarly, the opinion of a doctor that  

         there was no evidence of any sexual intercourse or rape,  

         may not be sufficient to disbelieve the accusation of rape  

         by   the   victim.   Bruises,   abrasions   and   scratches   on   the  

         victim   especially   on   the   forearms,   writs,   face,   breast,  

         thighs and back are indicative of struggle and will support  

         the allegation of sexual assault. The courts should, at the  

         same time, bear in mind that false charges of rape are not  

         uncommon. There have also been rare instances where a  

         parent has persuaded a gullible or obedient daughter to  

SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                      Page No. 14 of 22
          make a false charge of a rape either to take revenge or  

         extort money or to get rid of financial liability. Whether  

         there was rape or not would depend ultimately on the facts  

         and circumstances of each case. 
         15. The evidence of the prosecutrix when read as a whole,  

         is full of discrepancies and does not inspire confidence.  

         The gaps in the evidence, the several discrepancies in the  

         evidence   and   other   circumstances   make   it   highly  

         improbable   that   such   an   incident   ever   took   place.   The  

         learned Counsel for the respondent submitted that defence  

         had  failed to prove that Mangilal, father  of prosecutrix  

         was indebted to Radhu's father Nathu and consequently,  

         defence of false implication of accused should be rejected.  

         Attention   was   invited   to   the   denial   by   the   mother   and  

         father of the prosecutrix, of the suggestion made on behalf  

         of   the   defence,   that   Sumanbai's   father   Mangilal   was  

         indebted to Radhu's father Nathu and because Nathu was  

         demanding   money,   they   had   made   the   false   charge   of  

         rape, to avoid repayment. The fact that the defence had  

         failed to prove the indebtedness of Mangilal or any motive  

         for false implication, does not have much relevance, as the  

         prosecution miserably failed to prove the charges. We are  

         satisfied that the evidence does not warrant a finding of  

         guilt at all, and the Trial Court and High Court erred in  

SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                  Page No. 15 of 22
            returning a finding of guilt." 
                          Similar views are expressed in State of Punjab  

           Vs. Gurmit Singh & Ors. AIR 1996 SC 1393,   wherein  

           honble   the   Supreme   Court   held   that   in   cases   involving  

           sexual offences, harassment, molestation etc. the court is  

           duty bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity.  

           It was held that: "The courts should examine the broader  

           probabilities   of   a   case   and   not   get   swayed   by   minor  

           contradictions   or   insignificant   discrepancies   in   the  

           statement   of   the   prosecutrix,   which   are   not   of   a   fatal  

           nature,   to   throw   out   an   otherwise   reliable   prosecution  

           case. If evidence of the prosecutrix inspires confidence, it  

           must be relied upon without seeking corroboration of her  

           statement in material particulars. If for some reason the  

           court finds  it difficult to place implicit reliance  on her  

           testimony,   it   may   look   for   evidence   which   may   lend  

           assurance   to   her   testimony,   short   of   corroboration  

           required in the case of an accomplice. The testimony of  

           the prosecutrix must be appreciated in the background of  

           the   entire   case   and   the   trial   court  must   be   alive   to   its  

           responsibility and be sensitive while  dealing with cases  

           involving sexual molestations." 
29.           The   prosecutrix   in   this   case   is   a   minor.   As   per   the   bony   age 

ossification test of the prosecutrix, she is between 10.2 to 13 years. The Indian 

SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                          Page No. 16 of 22
 Evidence Act 1872 does not prescribe any particular age as a determinative 

factor to treat the witness to be competent witness. As per section 118 of Indian 

Evidence Act, 1872, all the witnesses shall be competent to testify unless the 

court considers that they are prevented from understanding the question put to 

them   or   from   giving   rational   answers   to   those   questions,   by   tender   years, 

extreme old age, disease, weather of body or mind or any other cause of the 

same kind. An explanation has been incorporated by the legislature to clarify 

that a lunatic is not incompetent to testify, unless he is prevented by his lunacy 

from understanding the questions put to him and giving rational answers. Thus, 

so far as the competency to appear as a witness, the legislature has underlined 

the basic requirement of a person's understanding of the obligation to speak the 

truth and to give an accurate impression and possession of the mental capacity 

at the time of the occurrence concerning which he has to testify and to receive 

an accurate impression of it.  This would be moreso in the case the witness is a 

child of tender years.  It is necessary to ascertain as to whether the witness had 

a memory sufficient to retain and independent recollection of the occurrence, 

capacity to understand simple question about it and the capacity to express his / 

her memory of occurrence.  
30.             The Apex court has observed that the omission to administer an 

oath goes to the credibility of the witness and not his competency which is in 

effect under section 118 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872.  

                     So far as the competency of a child to testify as a witness is 

concerned, the courts in India have relied on the proposition formulated by 

Justice   Brewer   in   Wheeler   vs.   United   States   159   US   523   (1895)   who   had 


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                     Page No. 17 of 22
 opined that the evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected per se, 

but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with close scrutiny 

and only on being convicted about the quality thereof and reliability can record 

conviction, based thereon....... 
                  The   reservation   expressed   with   regard   to   evaluating   the 

testimony   of   a   witness   is   based   on   apprehensions   that   children   may   be 

vulnerable   and   susceptible   to   be   swayed   by   what   others   tell   and   the   child 

witness   is   an   easy   pray   to   tutoring   and   therefore   their   evidence   must   be 

evaluated carefully and with greater circumspection. (Ref: Panchhi vs. State of 

U.P. MANU/SC/ 0530/ 1998 : 1998 CriLJ 4044). 
                   It is equally well settled that if satisfied that the testimony of the 

child witness is a voluntary expression of what transpired and is an accurate 

impression  of  the  same,  no  corroboration  of  the  testimony  is  required.  The 

Supreme Court has repeatedly ruled that there is no rule of practice that the 

evidence of a child witness needs corroboration and stated that conviction can 

be based on it. It is only as a rule of caution and prudence that the court    may 

require     that     it   would     be     desirable     to   have corroboration from other 

dependable   evidence.     (Ref   :   Dattu   Ramrao     Sakhare     &   Ors.   vs.   State   of 

Maharashtra   MANU/SC/1185/1997   :   (1997)   5   SCC   341;   Suryanarayana   vs. 

State of Karnataka MANU/SC/0001/2001 : 2001 Cri.L.J. 705). 

31.               In the case of Dhirender Vs State of NCT of Delhi , Crl. A.No. 

121/2008 decided on 29.09.2009, Hon'ble Justice Geeta Mittal of Delhi High 

Court has beautifully summed up the law propounded by Apex Court in various 

pronouncements eg.  Sakshi Vs Union of India & Ors. AIR 2004 SC 3566, 


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                      Page No. 18 of 22
 Sudesh   Jhaku   Vs   K.C.J   &   Ors.   1998   Crl.   L.   J.   2428  and   various   other 

pronouncements wherein the Hon'ble Apex Court has referred to the necessity 

of examination of a rape victim under screen and in camera and has also held 

that the trial judge may permit a social worker or other friendly, independent or 

neutral adult in whom the child has confidence to accompany the child and to 

be present and accessible to the child at all times during his or her testimony. 

Though,   the   care   should   be   taken   that   such   person   does   not   influence   the 

child's testimony. 
32.             In the present case also though, one counselor was allowed to sit 

with   the   prosecutrix   during   her   examination   in   chief   when   it   was   firstly 

recorded on 08.04.2011 but after my predecessor court had satisfied itself about 

the capability and the competency of PW­1 to depose before the court, she had 

recorded her statement. No such assistance was required by the child during her 

later examinations.   
33.             In this case, the testimony of prosecutrix PW­1 is consistent.  She 

is   not   shaken   during   her   cross   examination   despite   the   not   so   conducive 

atmosphere­ almost bordering the hostile - in the court during the recording of 

her testimony.  In her deposition before the court she has identified the accused 

to be the person who had committed rape upon her.  She has deposed that the 

accused came to her and took her to jungle.  She has stated that " Thereafter he  

removed   my   clothes.     He   started   misbehaving   with   me   (badtamiji   ki).     He  

slapped me.  He also removed his paijama.  Accused put his private organ in  

my private part.  ( Usne apna pishab wala mere pishab wali jagah me dala ".  

Nothing adverse came out in the cross examination of PW­1.  The testimony of 


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                      Page No. 19 of 22
 the prosecutrix, with relation to the incident of rape is reassuring as she has 

been   consistent   throughout   in   describing   what   the   accused   did   to   her.   Her 

description of the act of rape is accurate and narrated with the understanding of 

a ten year old child. It is not spoken of with the sophistication of an adult, and 

from   this   one   can   be   reassured   that   the   child   has   not   been   coached.   The 

submission of Ld. counsel for the accused that the testimony of the prosecutrix 

is not reliable since she could not speak and depose in her statement under 

section 164 of Cr.P.C is insignificant since before the court the prosecutrix has 

identified the accused as well as narrated the incident in clear terms. Moreover, 

the concerned Magistrate who could not record the statement of prosecutrix 

under section 164 Cr.P.C had observed that she was still under shock and is not 

ready to make a statement. The prosecutrix has identified the accused in the 

TIP   proceedings   in   Tihar   Jail   which   fact   is   corroborated   by   her   in   her 

examination in chief as recorded on 08.04.2012.   The prosecutrix has denied 

the suggestion given to her by the counsel for the accused that she has seen the 

accused in the police station.  She has only stated that she had seen the accused 

in jail with many people thereby corroborating the factum of TIP in which she 

had identified the accused.  No suggestion has been put to the prosecutrix by 

the accused that she was shown the photographs of the accused in the police 

station on the basis of which she had identified him, as is put to the Investigatig 

officer of the case by the defence counsel.  
34.             The statement of the prosecutrix is also supported by her MLC 

Ex.PW7/A which is duly proved by the concerned doctor wherein her hymen 

was found torn.  Though, the FSL result is negative but since the accused was 


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                      Page No. 20 of 22
 arrested after about 12­13 days of the incident and the clothes were sent for 

examination after a long gap, the negative result in the FSL report is not so 

significant when otherwise from the testimony of the prosecutrix and from her 

medical examination the factum of rape is proved as well as the identity of the 

accused is established. 
35.            The other officials of the NGO, Butterfly have  deposed that the 

statement of the prosecutrix under section 161 of Cr.P.C was recorded in their 

presence.  PW­4 had also deposed that the prosecutrix has narrated the incident 

to her which is also admitted by the prosecutrix PW­1 in her statement before 

the court. The prosecutrix is minor below 16 years of age .  There is no reason 

to believe that she will falsely implicate the accused in this case without any 

enmity with him.  The accused, in his statement under section 313 of Cr.P.C has 

not imputed any motive to the prosecutrix.  
36.            Accordingly,   from   the   statement   of   prosecutrix   PW­1   duly 

corroborated   by   her   medical   record   the   prosecution   has   proved   all   the 

ingredients of offence of rape. It is proved that sexual intercourse was done 

without the consent of the prosecutrix.  Further as per the medical examination 

report of accused proved by concerned doctor there was nothing to suggest that 

accused was incapable of performing sexual intercourse.  The non examination 

of Asif Khan due to the fact that he could not be traced out, is no ground to 

disbelieve the testimony of the prosecutrix and the identification of the accused 

by her in the court as well as in the TIP proceedings in Tihar Jail.  Similarly, 

the argument of Ld. Defence counsel that there is discrepancy in the statement 

of the Investigating officer with regard to the signatures of Asif Khan on the 


SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                                Page No. 21 of 22
 seizure memo of the clothes is not a material circumstance to disbelieve the 

prosecution witnesses or to shatter the prosecution case.  

37.           In view of the above said discussion, prosecution has been fully 

able to prove its case under Section 376(1) of IPC against the accused as the 

prosecutrix is beyond 12 years of age but under 16 years.  He is therefore, held 

guilty and convicted for the offence under Section 376(1) of IPC.   

ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT
ON 20.12.2012
                                                              ( RENU BHATNAGAR )
                                                               DESIGNATED JUDGE
                                                               TADA/POTA/MCOCA
                                                      ASJ SE­01/NEW DELHI/20.12.2012




SC No. 26/11 State Vs Wahidur Rehman                            Page No. 22 of 22
 