1.          The accused has been arrested and charge sheeted in
this case for having raped a minor school going girl about 20 to 25
times.
2.          The case of the prosecution, as unfolded in the charge
sheet, is that the prosecutrix namely 'A' (real name withheld in
order to conceal her identity), a minor, was living alongwith her
family in E-112, Qutub Vihar, Goyla Dairy, New Delhi and the
accused resides in her neighburhood i.e. in house No. E-200,
Qutub Vihar, Goyla Dairy, New Delhi. The incident has been
reported to police on 06.08.2012. In the year 2012, the prosecutrix



SC No.106/13                                          Page 1 of 12
 was studying in Class 7th in a school in Goyla and for the last 4-5
months before the date of registration of the case, accused used
to leave the prosecutrix and other children at their school in the
morning in his four wheeler tempo. The prosecutrix used to board
the tempo from the house of the accused. About four months prior
to the registration of case, one day, when she reached the house
of the accused at 6 am for going to school, the accused took her
behind the wall of the courtyard of his house, put off her lower
garments as well as his own and raped her. When prosecutrix tried
to raise alarm, he gagged her mouth with his hand and after
commission of rape, he threatened her that if she disclosed the
incident to anybody, he would kill her as well as her family
members. Thereafter accused raped her 20 to 25 times.          Then
school closed for vacations. The prosecutrix did not disclose her
sufferings to her family members on account of fear. About ten
days prior to the lodging of complaint in the police station, mother
of prosecutrix asked her if she is getting the monthly mensuration
periods regularly to which she replied that she has not got the
periods for the last two months. Her mother got her checked up
and it came to be known that she is pregnant. On repeated
insistence of her mother, she disclosed the entire incident to her.
The mother of the prosecutrix brought her to the Police Station
Chhawla where her statement was recorded and FIR was
registered. The prosecutrix was got medically examined. Accused
was arrested. The statement of witnesses were recorded. Accused
also was got medically examined. Statement of prosecutrix u/s
164 Cr.P.C. was got recorded. Relevant exhibits were sent to CFSL
for forensic examination. Documentary proof regarding the age of
the prosecutrix were obtained from the school in which she was




SC No.106/13                                           Page 2 of 12
 studying. After the completion of investigation, charge sheet was
laid before the concerned ld. Magistrate who then committed the
case to the Court of Sessions for trial.
3.          On 25.10.2012, accused was charged with having
committed offences punishable u/s 376 IPC and u/s 506 IPC. The
accused abjured his guilt and claimed trial. The prosecution has
examined 14 witnesses to bring home the guilt of the accused. Ld.
APP also tendered in evidence the FSL results. The accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. on 04.06.2013 wherein he disputed all
the incriminating facts and circumstances put to him and claimed
to be innocent. He further stated that his brother-in-law (Saala)
namely Kailash was staying with him in the year 2012 and one day
he had seen Kailash carrying the prosecutrix Aarti on his
Motorcycle as pillion. He scolded Kailash for doing so and warned
him not to bring that girl with him in future. He also had gone to
the house of prosecutrix and told her not to have any relation with
his brother-in-law and for this reason, he has been falsely
implicated in this case. The accused has chosen not to lead any
evidence in his defence.
4.          I have heard ld. APP, ld. Counsel for the accused and
have perused the entire oral as well as documentary evidence on
record.
5.          Ld. APP submitted that the case of the prosecution has
been duly established by way of testimony of the prosecutrix
(PW-1), her mother Manju Devi (PW-2), DNA report Ex. P-A and
other related evidence on record. She submitted that nothing




SC No.106/13                                          Page 3 of 12
 contrary to the prosecution case has come out in the cross
examination of any of the prosecution witnesses. According to her,
the accused is liable to be convicted for the offences with which he
has been charged.
6.           Ld. Counsel for the accused submitted that the
prosecution case cannot be believed as there has been delay of
about three months in reporting the matter to the Police, which
has remained to be explained. According to him, the prosecutrix,
had engaged in sexual intercourse with the accused voluntarily
and with her consent, which is the reason for not reporting the
matter to the Police soon after the incident. He also submitted that
prosecution has failed to lead convincing evidence regarding the
age of the prosecutrix. Lastly, he submitted that the assertion of
the accused that he had seen prosecutrix roaming about with his
brother-in-law on his motorcycle stands proved by the fact that the
prosecutrix has already married the brother-in-law of the accused.
According to him, the accused is innocent and is liable to be
acquitted.
7.           The prosecutrix, in this case, has been examined as
PW1. She has deposed that the accused used to ply a tempo and
used to take her to Government Girls School, Goyala Khurd, New
Delhi, where she was studying in class VIIth and also used to bring
her back. She used to board tempo of the accused first of all and
after travelling some distance other students also boarded it. She
used to come to the house of the accused from her house and
board the tempo at about 6 a.m. On 10.4.2012, as usual, her
mother dropped her at the house of the accused and left home.
 The accused took her to the compound of his house. Then he took
off her Salwar and also took off his pant and committed sexual
intercourse with her against her wishes. She tried to raise alarm
but the accused gagged her mouth with his hand and did not allow
her to shout. Accused threatened her not to disclose the incident
to anybody or otherwise he would kill her, her brother and her
parents. Then accused took her to school as usual and dropped
her   there.   Thereafter   accused   continued   to   have   sexual
intercourse with her in the morning before taking her to school
and this process continued for about 20/25 days. After about two
months when she did not get regular mensuration periods, she
told so to her mother. Her mother took her to Samta Hospital
where it was revealed that she was pregnant. Her mother was
shocked to hear this and slapped her. Thereafter she narrated the
whole incident in detail to her mother. Her parents took her to the
police station on 06.8.2012 where her statement Ex.PW1/A was
recorded. From the police station, he was taken to RTRM Hospital,
Jaffarpur. She was admitted in the hospital and her pregnancy was
aborted. She remained admitted there for about three days. After
her discharge from the hospital on 09.8.2012 the police officials
came to her house and she showed the spot of incident to them.
Site plan Ex.PW1/B was prepared by the police officials at her
instance. She was produced before a Ld. Magistrate on 13.8.2012
who recorded her statement Ex.PW1/C. In the cross examination
conducted on behalf of the accused, the prosecutrix deposed that
at the time of incident, she was staying in 7th standard. She can
read and write Hindi and can read English a little bit. She did not
remember when she was subjected to sexual assault by the
accused for the first time and for the last time. She was taken by




SC No.106/13                                            Page 5 of 12
 her mother for medical examination first to Samta Hospital and
then to Lady Hardings Hospital before she was got medically
examined by the police in RTRM Hospital. Her mother had not
made any call to PCR at telephone no.100. She took her directly to
the police station. She also deposed that there is a courtyard in
front of the house of the accused which is bounded by a broken
brick wall. The length of the courtyard would be about 25 yards
and there is no gate in the boundary wall. The accused resided
there as a tenant. One more tenant used to reside in that house
alongwith his family including two children aged 10 years and 5
years, who used to attend the afternoon school.
8.           Be it noted here that the contents of the statement of
the prosecutrix given to police (Ex.PW1/A), which is the basis of
the FIR in this case and that recorded by the Ld. Magistrate
Ex.PW1/C are almost similar to what she has deposed before this
court. I do not see any noteworthy contradiction or inconsistency
between her testimony before this court and her previous
statement.
9.           PW2 Smt. Manju Devi is the mother of the prosecutrix.
She deposed that accused resides in their neighborhood and used
to take her daughter to her school in his tempo. She used to drop
her daughter 'A' at the house of accused daily at 6 a.m. where she
used to board the tempo of the accused for school. At that time,
'A' was studying in Class VIIth in Govt. Girls School, Goyala Khurd.
In the month of August, 2012 when her daughter 'A' started feeling
sick, she asked her if she is getting mensuration period regularly.
She told her that she did not get her mensuration period for the




SC No.106/13                                           Page 6 of 12
 last two months. Thereupon she took her to Samta Hospital for her
check-up and it was revealed that 'A' is pregnant. She was
shocked to hear this. She slapped 'A' and asked her how did it
happen. 'A' then narrated the incident in detail to her saying that
she has been repeatedly raped by the accused in the morning in
the compound of his house. They returned home and on arrival of
her husband in the evening, she apprised him about the incident.
They took 'A' to police station to lodge a complaint. Statement of
'A' was recorded in the police station and thereafter she was taken
to RTRM Hospital, Jaffarpur, where she remained admitted for
three days and her pregnancy was aborted on 07.8.2012. While
her daughter 'A' was in the hospital, she took the police officials to
the house of accused but he was not present there at that time.
Soon thereafter the accused was seen present in the gali cleaning
his tempo, she pointed out the accused to police officials and he
was arrested vide arrest memo Ex.PW2/A.
10.         In cases involving the offence of rape, the testimony of
prosecutrix is the most vital and material piece of evidence. Her
statement if found to be worthy of credence and reliable, requires
no corroboration and court may convict the accused on her sole
testimony. A prosecutrix of sex offence cannot be put on par with
an accomplice. She is in fact a victim of crime. The Evidence Act
nowhere says that her evidence cannot be accepted unless it is
corroborated in material particulars.      She is undoubtable and
competent witness under section 118 and her evidence must
receive the same weight as is attached to an injured in cases of
physical violence.   The same degree of care and caution must
attach in the evaluation of her evidence as in the case of an




SC No.106/13                                             Page 7 of 12
 injured complainant or witness and no more.          In case involving
sexual harassment, molestation etc. the court is duty bound to
deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. Minor contradictions
or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a prosecutrix
should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise reliable
prosecution case.     While evaluating evidence, the court must
remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self respecting
woman would come forward in a court just to make a humiliating
statement against her honour. At the same time, it is also settled
position that if for some reason the court is hesitant to place
implicit reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix, it may look
for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony short of
corroboration required in case of an accomplice. If the court of
facts finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix at its
face value, it may search for evidence, direct or circumstantial,
which would lend assurance to her testimony. (See- State of
Maharashtra vs. Chandraprakash Kewalchand Jain, AIR
1990 SC 658, State of U.P. vs. Pappu @ Yunus and anr., AIR
2005 SC 1248, State of Punjab vs. Gurmit Singh and Ors.,
AIR 1966 SC 1393).
11.         In the instant case the scrutiny of testimony of
prosecutrix reveals that her deposition before this court does not
suffer from any embellishments or prevarications. She has
remained consistent in narrating the incident firstly to the police
official during the course of investigation and then to the Ld.
Magistrate who recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and lastly
to this court during the course of her testimony. I do not see any
contradiction or inconsistency between her testimony and her




SC No.106/13                                              Page 8 of 12
 previous statements recorded during the course of investigation. It
is evident that the accused, by taking advantage of ignorance,
innocence and minority of the victim 'A', raped her repeatedly in
the mornings when she was left at his house by her mother for
being taken to school. I see no reason to disbelieve the testimony
of the prosecutrix. Nothing from the record has been brought to
my notice by the Ld. Counsel for the accused which may persuade
me to take a different view of the matter than which is projected
by prosecution. The statement of the prosecutrix finds sufficient
corroboration in material particulars from the testimony of her
mother PW2 and also from the scientific evidence on record.
12.         As per the DNA fingerprinting report Ex.PA, the
comparison of DNA isolated from the fetus of the prosecutrix with
the DNA isolated from the blood sample of the accused, has
revealed that the accused is the biological father of the fetus of
the prosecutrix. It will be pertinent to state that on account of the
prosecutrix having been repeatedly raped by the accused, she had
become pregnant, which pregnancy was got aborted in DDU
Hospital where she had been taken by the police officials and the
fetus had been preserved. The contents of the DNA fingerprinting
report as noticed herein above leave no manner of doubt that it is
the accused only who had sexually assaulted the prosecutrix as a
result of which she had become pregnant.
13.         It was submitted by Ld. Counsel for accused that as
the prosecutrix did not apprise her parents about the sexual
assault of the accused upon her for the first time and continued to
subject herself to the sexual intercourse with the accused




SC No.106/13                                            Page 9 of 12
 continuously for about 20 to 25 days, without complaining to
anybody about the acts of the accused, it is sufficient indication
that she was a consenting party to the sexual intercourse.        He
submits that there is a delay of more than two months in reporting
the matter to the police which shakes the foundation of the
prosecution case and makes it unreliable. I am unable to
countenance the submissions of Ld. Counsel. It is not in dispute
that the police complaint was lodged after about four months of
the first sexual assault upon the prosecutrix but the delay cannot
be attributed to any deliberate act on the part of the prosecutrix or
her parents. From the overall deposition of the prosecution, it is
amply clear that the first sexual intercourse between the accused
and the prosecutrix and all other subsequent sexual acts were not
with the consent of the prosecutrix. At the time of first sexual
intercourse she had tried to raise alarm but accused gagged her
mouth and did not allow her to shout. He threatened her that he
would kill her as well as her family members if she narrated the
incident to anybody. It is on account of the fear of the threats
extended by the accused and also on account of the fear of the
parents that the prosecutrix suffered the ignominy of being raped
quietly. She compellingly had to submit her body to the lust of the
accused. The prosecutrix could not have mustered courage to
narrate the incident to anybody, had she not missed her
mensuration period on account of her becoming pregnant which
was noticed by her mother who then took her to the hospital. It is
in these circumstances that the illegal acts of the accused came to
light and case could be registered against him. The delay of four
months in reporting the matter to the police in the present case is
quite understandable and does not, in any way, impact the case of




SC No.106/13                                           Page 10 of 12
 prosecution at all.
14.         Even otherwise also the submissions of the Ld.
Counsel for the accused that the sexual intercourse between the
prosecutrix and the accused was consensual one is not supported
by the evidence on record. The prosecutrix had not been
questioned in this regard in her cross examination and no such
suggestion has been given to her. More importantly the accused in
his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. does not state that the prosecutrix
was a consenting party to the sexual intercourse. He has
completely denied that he committed any sexual intercourse with
the prosecutrix and has claimed false implication for some other
reason.
15.         The defence of consensual sexual intercourse raised
on behalf of the accused is not acceptable in view of the age of the
prosecutrix also.     The records of the school which she had first
attended (Ex.PW11/A, Ex.PW11/B and Ex.Pw11/C) show her date of
birth as 20.11.1996 which implies that in March/April, 2012, when
she was ravaged by the accused, she was less than 16 years of
age and hence her consent was immaterial. The plea of
consensual intercourse fails on this count too.
16.         The reason for false implication given by the accused
in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. is that he had seen the prosecutrix
on the motorcycle of his brother-in-law namely Kailash as a pillion,
upon which he scolded his brother-in-law and also had gone to the
house of the prosecutrix to tell her not to have any relation with
his brother-in-law. According to the accused, this led to filing up of




SC No.106/13                                           Page 11 of 12
 a false complaint of rape by the prosecutrix against him. These
facts have also come for the first time in his statement u/s 313
Cr.P.C. no prosecution witness including the prosecutrix and her
mother has been questioned in this regard and no suggestion has
been given to them regarding this assertion. Even the accused did
not lead any evidence to prove his aforesaid defence. It is,
therefore, evident that the aforesaid defence taken by the accused
is absolutely baseless and concocted.
17.        Considering the testimony of prosecutrix which stands
corroborated by the testimony of her mother as well as scientific
evidence in the nature of DNA fingerprinting report (Ex.PA)
coupled with the false alibis raised by the accused, I am of the
opinion that the prosecutrix has been successful in proving the
charges against the accused.
18.        The   accused   is,   therefore,   convicted   of   having
committed the offences punishable u/s.376 IPC and u/s.506 IPC.
