 identity   confidential   )   got   recorded   her   statement   stating   that   she   is 

residing at H.No. A­266, Gautam Puri, Phase­I, Badarpur, New Delhi. 

On the night of 27­28/05/2011 she was sleeping in her house and the door 

of her house was open as it was hot.  At about 1/1.30 pm accused Bijender 

came, who is her neighbour, came to her house, pressed her mouth and 

made her inhale some intoxicant due to which she became unconscious . 

Accused   took   prosecutrix   in her  lap to  his  house  and  laid her  on the 

ground.  He then removed her clothes and committed wrong act with her. 

Thereafter,   accused   put   the   prosecutrix   under   the   quilts.   When   she 

regained   consciousness   she   found   herself   in   her   home.   She   was   got 

medically examined at the AIIMS hospital by the police officials.   Her 

mother  also  accompanied  her to the hospital.   Subsequently, case was 

registered against the accused Bijender.  Accused was searched and was 

arrested.     Accused   was   got   medically   examined   at   AIIMS   Hospital. 

Statement   of   prosecutrix   under   section   164   Cr.P.C   was   got   recorded. 

Exhibits were sent to FSL, Rohini, Delhi.   Statement of witnesses were 

recorded   and   after   completion   of   investigation,   charge   sheet   was   filed 

under Section 376/363 IPC against the accused in the court. 

2              Since   the   offence   under   Section   376   IPC   is   exclusively 

triable by the Court of Sessions, therefore, after supply of documents, Ld. 

Metropolitan Magistrate committed the case to the court of Sessions.

Charge against the accused: against the accused. Charge under Section 363/376 IPC was framed upon 

the accused by my Ld. Predecessor court vide order dated 09.09.2011 to 

which accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.  

Witnesses Examined:­

4             In   support   of   its   case,   prosecution   has   examined   twelve 

witnesses in all.  The brief summary of the deposition of the prosecution 

witnesses is as under:­

Material Witnesses:­

5             PW­3   is  prosecutrix  namely  'X'  who  deposed  that  on  the 

intervening night of 27­28.05.2011, she was sleeping at her home and the 

door of the house was opened as it was hot.  In the night at about 2 am the 

accused Bijender, who resides opposite my house, came to her house and 

pressed her mouth and made her inhale some intoxicant due to which she 

became little unconscious and thereafter the accused Bijender took her to 

his house by lifting her.  He then laid her on the ground and removed her 

clothes.  Accused then committed rape with her.  Thereafter, accused put 

her/hide her under the heaps of the clothes/quilts and when she regained 

consciousness   her   family   members   brought   her   home.   Her   father 

informed the police.   Police took her to hospital and got conducted her 

medical   examination.   On   asking   by   the   police,   she   handed   over   her 

clothes to them.  Police also took her to the court of Magistrate where her 

statement was recorded by the Magistrate.  along with his family were sleeping in the house.  He was sleeping in the 

gali as there was no electricity.  He woke up at 2 am in the night and saw 

that his daughter namely 'X' was not on her bed.   He along with his 

family   members   tried   to   locate   her   but   could   not   found   her.   On 

28.05.2011 at about 6 am  some neighbours informed his nephew that her 

daughter is in House No. A­238.  He along with 2­3 neighbours went to 

that   house   and   inquired   from   accused   Bijender   who   stated   that   his 

daughter is not present there and has run away with somebody. When he 

was   coming   out   from   that   house,   he   heard   cry   of   his   daughter.     He 

immediately went inside the room and found his daughter lying under the 

mattresses/quilt   and   other   clothes   in   the   room   of   the   accused   in 

unconscious condition. He along with other persons brought his daughter 

to   home   and   on   regaining   consciousness   she   told   them   that   accused 

Bijender made her inhale some stupefying substance and took her to his 

house where the accused committed rape with her.  Thereafter they bolted 

the accused in his room and called at 100 number. Police came and on 

opening the room of the accused found that accused had removed the 

cement sheet of the roof and absconded. Police took his daughter to the 

hospital and got her medical examined. Mother of the prosecutrix also 

accompanied   them.   Police   took   into   possession   the   clothes   of   the 

prosecutrix. Accused was arrested by the police on 29.05.2011 from his 

house.  
7              PW­6 is Ms. Kamlesh and PW­7 is Sh. Dharmender who had 

also deposed on the lines of PW­5.  
upon receipt of DD No. 7A he along with Ct. Damodar and W/Ct. Lakhan 

Bai reached at the spot, got prosecutrix medically examined,  recorded the 

statement of prosecutrix, got the case registered, prepared the site plan, 

arrested the accused,  got accused medically examined, got the statement 

of   the   prosecutrix   under   section   164   Cr.P.C   recorded,     recorded   the 

statements  of  witnesses,   sent  the exhibits to FSL  and filed the charge 

sheet in the court.  
Formal Witnesses:­

9             PW­1 is Sh. Deepak Shehrawat who recorded the statement 

of the prosecutrix under section 164 Cr.P.C and has duly proved on record 

Ex.PW1/A to Ex.PW1/D.
10            PW­4 is Head Constable Om Prakash who deposed that on 

28.05.2011 he was posted as duty officer at police station Badarpur from 

12 midnight to 8 am.  On the said day, an information was received from 

DO control room that one person had confined his daughter in the house 

near Gim Khana Club, Gautam Puri.  He reduced the information in his 

own handwriting as DD No. 7A in the Roznamcha and duly proved on 

record the true copy Ex.PW4/A.
11            PW­8 is Lady Constable Lakhan Bai who deposed that on 

28.05.2011   upon   receipt   of   a   call   she   along   with   IO   and   Constable 

Damodar reached at the spot where many peoples were gathered.   Sh. 

Raju, father of the prosecutrix met them and told that accused Bijender 



SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                      Page No. 5/18
 has   committed   rape   with   his   daughter.   They   were   also   informed   that 

accused   Bijender   has   been   confined/locked   in   his   room.   When   they 

entered   the   room   they   found   roof   of   the   room   broken   and   accused 

Bijender was not available in the room.   They then made inquires from 

Prosecutrix   who   revealed   about   the   rape   committed   by   the   accused 

Bijender.  PW­8 along with the Investigating officer took prosecutrix for 

her medical examination.  Mother of prosecutrix also accompanied them. 

After medical examination, doctor handed over the exhibits and MLC to 

Investigating officer.   IO took into possession seizure memo Ex.PW3/C 

and recorded the statement of prosecutrix and her mother and got the case 

registered.  IO also recorded the statement of PW­8.  

12            PW­9 is Constable Damodar who also deposed on the lines 

of PW­8.  
13            PW­11   is   Constable   Pradeep   Malik   who   deposed   that   on 

24.06.2011 Investigating officer handed over him forwarding letter and on 

the instructions he collected the pullandas duly sealed with two sample 

seals from the MHC(M) and deposited the same in FSL Rohini.  Receipt 

of the same was given back to the MHC(M) PS Badarpur.  

Medical Witnesses:­

14            PW­2   is   Dr.   Shashank   Pooniya   who   deposed   that   on 

29.05.2011 he examined  the patient/accused Bijender and prepared the 

detailed MLC Ex.PW2/A and opined that there is nothing to suggest that 

the   patient/accused   was   not   capable   of   performing   sexual   intercourse 



SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                     Page No. 6/18
 under normal circumstances.   He handed over the blood in gauze and 

penile swab with control sealed with the seal of hospital collected from 

the   person   of   the  accused   along  with  sample  seal  to the  Investigating 

officer of the case. 
15               PW­12   is   Dr.   Vaishali   Sharma   who   has   examined   the 

prosecutrix and prepared detailed MLC Ex.PW3/A and opined that the 

hymen of the prosecutrix is torn.   She stated that she collected vaginal 

swabs  and   prepared   three  slides and sealed the same with the seal  of 

hospital and handed over to Lady Constable Lakhan Bai along with the 

sample seal.  
Statement & Defence of accused:­

16             Statement of accused under Section 313 Cr.P.C was recorded 

wherein he denied the case of prosecution and stated that he is innocent 

and   has   been   falsely   implicated   in   the   present   case.     Accused   further 

chose not to lead evidence in his defence.  
17             I have heard submissions of Defence counsel for accused as 

well as Ld. APP for state and have carefully perused the record. 

Arguments of Ld. Additional Public Prosecutor for the State. 

18             It is argued by Ld. Additional Public Prosecutor for the State 

that   the   prosecution   has   examined   the   prosecutrix   i.e.   PW3   who   has 

supported the prosecution case. PW5 is a father of the prosecutrix is also 

a witness of recovery of prosecutrix from the heaps of the quilts lying in 

the   room   of   the   accused.   PW6,   the   mother   of   the   prosecutrix   also 



SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                        Page No. 7/18
 supported   the   prosecution   case.   Similarly,   PW7   who   is   independent 

witness has proved the factum of recovery of the prosecutrix from the 

house of the accused. The statement of the prosecutrix is supported by the 

MLC. It is also argued that the conduct of the accused after committing 

the offence is noticeable since as per the statement of the public witness, 

he was locked in his room by them but he escaped after breaking the 

cemented sheets of the roof of his room. It is also stated that even in the 

cross examination of the prosecutrix, the accused has put a suggestion 

wherein it is stated that the prosecutrix had made physical relations with 

the accused with her own willingness. It is also stated that the prosecutrix 

is minor when she was raped and the offence of rape committed through 

kidnapping by the accused. 
Arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel for accused:­

19             It is argued that the prosecutrix is a major. Her date of birth 

if 07.08.1995. The incident had happened on 28.05.2011 which shows that 

she was beyond 16 years on the day of incident and not minor for the 

purpose   of   Section   376   IPC.   It   is   also   argued   that   in   her   statement 

recorded   under   Section   164   Cr.P.C,   she   has   stated   that   she   does   not 

remember as to what has happened to her when she was taken by the 

accused and when she regained consciousness. It is argued that PW7 is 

not a independent witness and he is the cousin of the prosecutrix and he is 

a interested witness. 
CONCLUSION:

know the ingredients of the offence by resorting to the provisions of sec.

375 read with sec.376 IPC. Section 375 Rape provides:­ " A man is said to 

commit "rape" who, except in the case hereinafter excepted, has sexual 

intercourse with a woman under circumstances falling under any of  the 

six following descriptions:­

               First­ Against her will.
               Secondly­ Without her consent.
               Thirdly­  With   her   consent,   when   her   consent   has   been 

obtained by putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of 

death or of hurt.
               Fourthly­ With her consent, when the man knows that he is 

not her husband, and that her consent is given because she believes that 

he   is   another   man   to   whom   she   is   or   believes   herself   to   be   lawfully 

married.
               Fifthly­  With her consent, when, at the time of giving such 

consent,   by   reason   of   unsoundness   of   mind   or   intoxication   or   the 

administration by him personally or through another of any stupefying or 

unwholesome   substance,   she   is   unable   to   understand   the   nature   and 

consequences of that to which she gives consent.  

               Sixthly­ With or without her consent, when she under sixteen 

years of age. 
               Explanation­ Penetration is sufficient to constitute the sexual 



SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                           Page No. 9/18
 intercourse necessary to the offence of rape.  
                Exception­  Sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, 

the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.  

21              "Rape"   is   the   act   of   physically   forcing   a   woman   to   have 

sexual   intercourse:   an   act   of   sexual   intercourse   that   is   forced   upon   a 

woman against her will.   "Statutory rape" is a sexual intercourse with a 

girl under the age of consent, which age varies in different States from ten 

to eighteen years. 
22              The offence of rape in its simplest term is 'the ravishment of 

a woman, without her consent, by force, fear or fraud', or as 'the carnal 

knowledge of a woman by force against her will? 'Rape' or 'Raptus' is 

when a man hath carnal knowledge of a woman by force and against her 

will   (Co.   lett.   123­b);   or   as   expressed   more   fully,   'rape'   is   the   carnal 

knowledge of any woman, above the age of particular years, against her 

will; or of a woman child, under that age, with or against her will. Section 

375 IPC defines rape. This Section requires the essentials:­

                    1.  Sexual intercourse by a man with woman.
                         2. The sexual intercourse must be under circumstances 

falling under any of the six clauses in Section 375 IPC.  

23              In   MANU/SC/7825/2008   Moti   Lal   vs.   State   of   M.P.,   the  

Apex Court had observed that :­

               "a   rapist   not   only   violates   the   victim's   privacy   and  

               personal   integrity,   but   inevitably   causes   serious  



SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                            Page No. 10/18
              psychological as well as physical harm in the process.  

             Rape   is   not   merely   a   physical   assault   ­­   it   is   often  

             destructive   of   the   whole   personality   of   the   victim.   A  

             murderer   destroys   the   physical   body   of   his   victim,   a  

             rapist  degrades the very soul  of the helpless   female.  

             The court,  therefore,  shoulders   a  great responsibility  

             while trying an accused on charges of rape. They must  

             deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity."

24            The two issues to be determined on the basis of evidence 

adduced by the prosecution are the age of the prosecutrix and whether she 

was a consenting party to the incident or not.   
25            Age of the prosecutrix:   As per the complaint lodged by the 

prosecutrix she has mentioned her age as 15 years in the rukka. To prove 

the age, the prosecution has proved the copy of the birth certificate of the 

prosecutrix   Ex.PW10/G   through   the   Investigating   officer   of   the   case 

wherein the date of birth of the prosecutrix is mentioned as 07.05.1995. 

However, this document has not been duly proved by the prosecution by 

producing the concerned official who had issued this document but the 

date   of   birth   of   the   prosecutrix   is   not   challenged   by   the   accused 

throughout in her statement in the court and at the time of preparation of 

her MLC and recording of her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C, the 

prosecutrix has opined her age as 15­16 years. The suggestion was made 

to PW10 SI Pappu Lal by the accused that it is correct that the date of 



SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                         Page No. 11/18
 birth   of   the   prosecutrix   is   07.05.1995.   This   suggestion   shows   that   the 

accused is not contesting the age of the prosecutrix. Hence, from the birth 

certificate produced on record and from the statement of the prosecutrix, 

her parents and in view of the fact that accused has not challenged the 

authenticity of school certificate wherein her date of birth is 07.05.1995 

and rather by putting a suggestion of date of birth of the prosecutrix to the 

IO,   he   has   admitted   the   said   date   of   birth.   Hence,   I   hold   that   the 

prosecutrix was more than 16 years but below 18 years on the day of 

incident. 
26              Consent of the prosecutrix  and other ingredients of the
                                                                         

offence:­   The main witness examined in this case is prosecutrix PW3 

who   had   consistently   deposed   that   on   the   intervening   night   of 

27/28.05.2011 she was sleeping at her house and the main door of her 

home was opened as it was very hot and about 02.00AM, the accused 

came to her house pressed her mouth, made her inhale some intoxicants 

due   to   which   she   became   little   unconsciousness   and   thereafter,   the 

accused took her to his home by lifting her, made her laid on the ground. 

Thereafter,   the   accused   removed   her   clothes   and   committed   sexual 

intercourse   with   her   and   thereafter   hide   her   under   the   heap   of 

clothes/quilts.   After   sometime,   when   she   regained   consciousness   her 

family members brought her home. The statement of the prosecutrix is 

supported by her father PW5, her mother PW6 as well as PW7. All the 

three persons are the witnesses of recovery of the prosecutrix from the 



SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                        Page No. 12/18
 house of the accused. They have categorically stated that upon receiving 

an information that prosecutrix is in House No. 238, they went to the said 

house where accused Bijender was sitting inside the house and when they 

inquired from the accused about prosecutrix, at which he replied that she 

ran away with somebody and she is not at his place. They have further 

deposed   that   when   they   were   coming   they   heard   painful   cry   of 

prosecutrix and immediately went inside the house of the accused and 

found that she was lying under the mattress of the room in unconscious 

condition. They brought prosecutrix back, sprinkled water upon her and 

after   gaining   consciousness,   she   disclosed   about   the   incident.   All   the 

witnesses have also deposed that they bolted the accused in the room and 

made call at 100 number and when the police came and opened the room 

of the accused, it was found that the accused had removed the cemented 

sheets of the room and absconded. Nothing adverse came out in the cross 

examination of all these witnesses so far as the recovery of prosecutrix 

from the house of the accused is concerned.
               Further,   the   conduct   of   the   accused   after   offence   is 

committed   i.e.   in   escaping   from   the   spot   also   points   towards   the 

culpability of accused because if he was innocent, there was no occasion 

for him to run away. 
               The   accused   has   put   suggestion   to   PW3,   the   prosecutrix 

wherein he had admitted that the physical relations were made with the 

prosecutrix but has stated that the physical relations were made with the 

willingness of the prosecutrix. The relevant suggestions are :­

SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                     Page No. 13/18
          "It is incorrect to suggest that I was having love affair  
         with   the  accused.   It  is  incorrect   to  suggest  that  I  had  
         gone to the room of the accused of my own to marry him.  
         It   is   incorrect   to   suggest   that   the   accused   had   not  
         committed any rape with me or that we made physical  
         relations   with   each   other   with   my   willingness.   It   is  
         incorrect   to   suggest   that   we   were   having   physical  
         relations even prior to the date of incident. It is incorrect  
         to suggest that on the next day of the incident, despite the  
         asking of the accused to return to my house, I refused to  
         return to my house as I wanted to marry him." 
              All these suggestions again show that it is an admitted case 

of the accused that he maintained physical relations with the prosecutrix 

but   his   defence   is   that   the   physical   relations   were   made   with   the 

willingness of the prosecutrix which is denied by the prosecutrix in toto. 

The similar suggestion that the accused and the prosecutrix were having 

love affair were even put to the other witnesses i.e. father, mother and 

PW­7 cousin of the prosecutrix. But in the statement under section 313 

Cr.P.C   of   the   accused,   the   accused   has   deviated   from   the   earlier 

suggestion stating that the prosecutrix wanted to marry him and sending 

messages to him and when he made the prosecutrix understands that he is 

not willing to marry her on which she has falsely implicated him in this 

case. 
27            This statement of the accused under section 313 Cr.P.C is not 

in consonance with the suggestions put to the prosecutrix by the accused 

wherein   he   has   admitted   that   he   was   having   love   affairs   with   the 



SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                      Page No. 14/18
 prosecutrix   and   made   physical   relations   with   her.   So   far   as   the 

willingness of  the prosecutrix in making relations with the accused is 

concerned, she has denied that the physical relations were made with her 

willingness.  
                The factum of recovery of the prosecutrix by the parents of 

the prosecutrix from beneath the quilts in the house of the accused, the 

past conduct of the accused in fleeing from the spot are also suggestive of 

the   fact   that   it   was   not   a   case   of   consensual   sex.   These   facts   go   to 

corroborate the statement of the prosecutrix that she was forcibly raped 

by   the   accused.   Ld.   Counsel   for   the   accused   has   argued   that   in   the 

statement   under   Section   164   Cr.P.C,   the   prosecutrix   has   not   stated 

anything against the accused as she was having love affairs with him. The 

statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C looses its 

connection   with   the  significance when the statement of the witness is 

recorded in the Court. If the statement of a witness recorded in the Court 

inspires confidence and appears to be trustworthy, the Court can safely 

rely upon the same. It is the case of the prosecution throughout that the 

accused has administered something to her when she was sleeping in the 

night making her semi­unconscious and in that condition, he lifted her 

and   took   her   to   his   room   and   committed   rape   upon   her.   Minor 

discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix with regard to gaining 

consciousness   does   not   shatter   the  statement   of  the   prosecutrix  which 

appears to be convincing, trustworthy. Her statement is even supported by 

the other prosecution witnesses. 
SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                            Page No. 15/18
 28.           It is settled law that the conviction of a accused can be based 

on the sole testimony of a prosecutrix if the same inspires confidence. It 

will be useful to refer to the observations of Apex Court in the case titled 

as  Radhu Vs State of Madhya Pradesh 2007, Crl. Law Journal 4704  

wherein Hon'ble Supreme court has held that:­

           " It is now well settled that a finding of guilt in a case  
           of rape, can be based on the uncorroborated evidence  
           of the prosecutrix. The very nature of offence makes it  
           difficult   to   get   direct   corroborating   evidence.   The  
           evidence of the prosecutrix should not be rejected on  
           the basis of minor discrepancies and contradictions. If  
           the victim of rape states on oath that she was forcibly  
           subjected   to   sexual   intercourse,   her   statement   will  
           normally   be   accepted,   even   if   it   is   uncorroborated,  
           unless the material on record requires drawing of an  
           inference   that   there   was   consent   or   that   the   entire  
           incident was improbable or imaginary. Even if there is  
           consent,   the   act   will   still   be   a   'rape',   if   the   girl   is  
           under 16 years of age. 
29            In 2010 III AD (DELHI) 448 titled as Shanker Sahai Vs. 

State it has been held that that testimony of prosecutrix, if believed, can  

be sole basis of conviction in rape case. No rule of law or of practice  

requires corroboration before her testimony can be accepted and acted  

upon.

30            Similar view has been taken in  2009 VI AD (DELHI) 37 

Arshad Vs. State wherein it has been held that:

SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                               Page No. 16/18
             "Conviction of the offender in rape case is based on  
            sole testimony of rape victim may be a child provided  
            if it inspires confidence of the court."
               Hence,   there   are   iota   of   judgments   on   the   point   that   the 

conviction of the accused can be based upon the sole testimony of the 

prosecutrix, if it inspires confidence and no independent corroboration is 

required.   
31.            The testimony of the prosecutrix in this case is convincing 

and trustworthy. Her recovery in unconscious state from the room of the 

accused,   the  conduct   of   the  accused  in  escaping  from  the  roof   of   the 

house, the admission of the accused that physical relations were made 

between   him   and   the   prosecutrix,   the   consistent   testimony   of   the 

prosecturix that accused had forcibly committed rape upon her also leads 

to conclusion of guilt against the accused. 
32             Medical Evidence:­  As per the MLC of the prosecutrix, her 

hymen   was   found   torn.   Though,   the   FSL   result   was   found   to   be 

inconclusive but as the accused himself has admitted making of physical 

relations   with   the   prosecutrix,   the   MLC   also   supports   the   case   of 

prosecution.  
33             Offence of Kidnapping under section 363 IPC:­   Section  

363 of IPC defines that  :­ Whoever kidnaps any person from or from  

lawful   guardianship,   shall   be   punished   with   imprisonment   of   either  

description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be  



SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender                        Page No. 17/18
 liable to fine.
              The prosecutrix is minor for the purposes of section 363 IPC. 

From the statement of the prosecutrix, her father, mother it is proved that 

the accused had taken the prosecutrix from the lawful guardianship of her 

parents without their consent. 
34            In view of the above discussion, the prosecution has proved 

its case beyond doubt against the accused. Hence, accused Bijender is 

convicted for the offence under Section 363/376 IPC. 

ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT
ON 01.08.2013
                                                        (RENU BHATNAGAR)
                                                        DESIGNATED JUDGE
                                                        TADA/POTA/MCOCA
                                                       ASJ SE­01/NEW DELHI




SC No. 107/11                  State Vs Bijender             Page No. 18/18
 