1.           As   per   record   the   present   case   commenced   with   filing   of 

complaint   Ex.PW1/C   by   the   complainant   /   prosecutrix   'C   K'   (name 
 withheld to protect the identity of the complainant) before the court of the 

concerned   Metropolitan   Magistrate.     In   brief,   the   allegations   of   the 

complainant are that she married the accused on 21.7.2008 at Arya Samaj 

Mandir, Yamuna Bazar, Delhi and the marriage certificate was duly issued 

on the same date i.e. on 21.7.2008.   The accused took the complainant a 

hotel at Karol Bagh , Delhi where their marriage was consumated.   The 

complainant alleged that out of the total room rent of Rs.2,800/­, she paid 

Rs.1800/­ while the remaining one thousand was paid by the accused.  On 

the next day , accused took her to a rented accommodation at Patel Nagar, 

Delhi which he had taken on monthly rent of Rs.2000/­ and they started 

living there as husband and wife.
              Complainant further alleged that the accused did not take her 

to his house on the one pretext or the other.  He often came late at night 

stating that he had work to do .  In the meantime he continued to establish 

physical relationship and even used to force her to take medicines so that 

she would not conceive.
              The complainant alleged that she also used to have intercourse 

with   the   accused   under   the   impression   that   he   is   her   legally   wedded 

husband.  
              Complainant  has alleged in her complaint that on 25.7.2008 

accused informed that he would come late on account of closing work in 

his bank and he asked the complainant to go to her parental home and that 
 he would take her from the house of her parents.  However, despite waiting 

for the whole night the accused did not come to take the complainant at her 

parental home.      Thereafter on 30.7.2008 accused again did not come to 

home under the pretext of closing work in  his bank and on 2.8.08 accused 

informed the complainant that he was going on bank tour to Shimla and 

would   return   on   10.8.08.   On   14.8.08   accused   again   informed   the 

complainant   that   he   was   going   Kanpur   to   the   house   of   his   sister   on 

occasion of Raksha Bandhan.   Though mother of complainant   asked the 

accused to take complainant along with him to Kanpur but accused refused 

to take her on the ground that he would first inform his sister about his 

marriage.  Thereafter accused  used to come in the night and used to go at 

5.00am in the morning  and when the landlady of the tenanted premises 

asked for the ID proof for the purpose of rent agreement, accused refused 

to give the same and asked the complainant to give her ID proof.

              It has further been alleged by the complainant in her complaint 

that on 25.8.08 the accused  visited her office and told the complainant that 

he would meet her only at her office because of his night duty. Accused 

also   told   her   to   live   in   the   house   of   her   mother   for   10­15   days. 

Complainant also asked the accused to leave the job to live peacefully to 

which accused agreed to leave but subject to condition that she would bear 

his expenses.   
              Complainant further alleged that while she was shifting from 
 the tenanted premises,  she found photocopy of a ration card and she was 

shocked and surprised to see the same that accused is already married and 

is   having   a   girl   child   of   8   years.     When   she   told   about   it   to   accused, 

accused admitted his marriage and his daughter.  Complainant has further 

alleged that thereafter accused started threatening her that if she would tell 

this   fact   to   anybody,   he   would   kill   her   and   her   family   members. 

Complainant made complaint to SHO, PS Patel Nagar on 20.10.2008 but 

no   action   was   taken.     Thereafter   she   again   sent   another   complaint   on 

31.1.09   to   the   Commissioner   of   Police,   SHO   PS   Patel   Nagar   and   on 

4.2.2009 to DCP (Central) against the accused but no action has been taken 

against the accused.
                The   Ld.   Metropolitan   Magistrate,   upon   receipt   of   the 

complaint   Ex.PW1/C   directed   the   complainant   to   lead   pre   summoning 

evidence and on the basis of the material on record, summoned the accused 

for facing trial for offences punishable U/s 376/420 IPC.

                Pursuant to committal of the case and on the basis of material 

on record,   accused was charged for offence under Section 376/417/495 

IPC to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

                Four witnesses  were examined on record to bring home the 

guilt of the accused.   
                The complainant 'CK'  deposed   as PW1 before the Court.  In 

her deposition  she narrated on the lines of her complaint and reiterated the 
 facts and allegations against the accused.
            In her testimony before the Court she stated that  she is owner 

of a boutique namely 'Gurukripa Enterprises' situated at Karol Bagh and 

she  had taken a loan from DBS Chola Mandalam. Accused present today 

in court used to visit her to collect installments of aforesaid loan. During 

those visits of accused to her house, he became friendly with her and her 

family members.  PW1 further deposed that accused offered a good match 

for her marriage to her mother.   But, she   did not like the boy who was 

introduced by the accused  and she refused the said proposal. She further 

deposed that at this, accused proposed himself to her mother and she also 

agreed to the proposal of accused.
            PW1   further   stated   that   on   21.07.2008,   her   marriage   was 

solemnized with the accused at Arya Samaj Mandir, Yamuna Bazar in the 

presence of her father and one Purshottam Sharma known to her father. No 

one attended the marriage from the side of the accused. One certificate was 

issued in regard to solemnization marriage, copy of the same is Ex.PW­1/A 

(OSR). After the marriage,  she was taken to a hotel at Karol Bagh by the 

accused but she does not remember the name of that hotel and her marriage 

was consummated during the night they stayed in that hotel.  On the next 

day i.e., 22.07.2008 they had taken a house on rent i.e. H.No.29/38, West 

Patel Nagar, New Delhi for a monthly rent of Rs.3000/­ and started living 

there as husband and wife.  
               It has further been deposed by the PW1 that on 25.07.2008, 

accused left the house for his office but did not return during night and he 

came back on the next morning at her boutique. Accused told her that due 

to bank closing period, he remained on duty and did not come to the house 

for this reason. Again on 30.07.2008, accused did not come to the house at 

night and assigned the same reason for his absence. After staying 2­3 days 

with her and on 02.08.2008 he left the house by telling  that he was going 

to   Shimla   on   account   of   some   official   work   and   would   return   on 

10.08.2008.   On 10.08.2008 accused returned from Shimla and stayed at 

home for 2­3 days.  On 14.08.2008 accused again left the house stating that 

he is going  to Kanpur to meet his sister for Rakhi festival and returned 

back after 3­4 days. On 25.08.2008, accused again left the house by stating 

that he had joined some work for night duties for 10­15 days and he asked 

her   that   she   should   stay   with   her   parents   during   the   said   period. 

Accordingly,  she went to  her parents  home and started living there. On 

10.09.2008, accused came to her parental home and took her to their house. 

However, he left the house at about 3:00 AM stating that he will return in 

the morning. The accused however never returned to the house after that 

day. But, he came to her boutique on 19.09.2008 and told her that he will 

not come to the house and would meet her only at my place of work for 

which   she   refused.     Whenever   the   accused   used   to   establish   sexual 

relations with her, he used to compel her to take a contraceptive pill.  
               PW1 has further deposed that after the accused left her, she 

shifted to her parental home. During the course of shifting, she found one 

folder containing photocopy of the Ration Card of the accused. There, the 

details of family members of the accused were mentioned which included 

his parents, wife namely Reena Khanna and one daughter aged about   8 

years.  After about one week, she saw accused on the road below my office 

and confronted him about the photocopy of the Ration Card.  The accused 

admitted that he was already married and was also having one daughter. 

PW1   further   narrated   that   on   20.10.2008   she   made   a   complaint   to   the 

police. 
              She has produced the complaint dated 20.10.08 made by her to 

SHO PS Patel Nagar.  Copy of the same is Ex. PW1/B and stated that no 

action was taken by the police on her said complaint.  Then, she sent other 

complaint dated 31.1.09 to higher police officials and another complaint 

dated   04.2.09   to   DCP   (Central).     Despite   her   aforesaid   complaints,   no 

action was taken by the police.  Then she  made a complaint in the court 

dated 16.3.09  which is Ex. PW1/C.  
              The prosecution also examined Sh. Deepak Shastri, The Pandit 

who solemnized the marriage of the accused with complainant as PW4. He 

produced original affidavit dated 21.7.2008 furnished by accused Chetan 

Khanna and complainant CK at the time of marriage.   The photocopy of 

their   affidavits   were   exhibited   as   Ex.PW4/A  and   Ex.PW4/   B.    He   also 
 deposed that he had solemnised their marriage and also correctly identified 

both the accused as well as complainant who were present in the court. 

PW4 also deposed that he had issued the marriage certificate Ex.PW2/A at 

the time of marriage of accused with complainant.  The witness however, 

did   not   produce   the   original   marriage   register   stating   that   the   same   is 

deposited in another case of PS Timarpur.
               Apart from the aforesaid witnesses, Sh. Purshottam Sharma a 

witness to the marriage of the accused and the complainant was brought 

into   the   witness   box   as   PW2.     He   deposed   that   on   21.7.2008   he   had 

attended the marriage of complainant CK and accused Chetan Khanna at 

Arya Samaj Mandir , Yamuna Bazar, Delhi.  He identified his signature on 

the marriage certificate Ex.PW2/A.
               PW3 is Sh.Bhuwan Sehgal, he deposed that in July'08 accused 

Chetan Khanna had approached his mother through a broker for taking on 

rent one room set in his property at West Patel Nagar, Delhi which was let 

out to him at monthly rent of Rs.3000/­.   PW3 also deposed that accused 

was living in the said premises along with the CK as husband and wife. 

               The aforesaid evidence was put to the accused in his statement 

recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C. wherein he admitted that he used to 

visit  the prosecutrix to collect installments  of loan which she had taken 

from DBS Cholamandalam.  Though the accused denied the factum of his 

marriage with the prosecutrix, he admitted that he was married and was 
 having a daughter and rather claimed that the prosecutrix was also aware of 

his marriage and about his daughter. Accused refused to lead any evidence 

in   defence   and   claimed   that   he   has   been   falsely   implicated   by   the 

prosecution in order to extract money from him as she had laid her hand on 

photocopy of his ration card.
              I have heard the arguments advanced by Ld. Defence counsel, 

Ld. APP for state and complainant herself and have also gone through the 

evidence on record.
              Ld.   defence   counsel   argued   that   infact   the   prosecutrix   had 

found photocopy of the ration card of the accused containing details of his 

family members and she was trying to extract money from him. It was also 

argued that no marriage was ever solemenised between the accused and the 

complainant  and  that  the  witnesses  are false  and  interested.    Moreover, 

father   of   the   prosecutrix   who  is  stated  to  be  a  witness   to  their  alleged 

marriage was also not brought in the witness box. 

              On   the   other   hand,   it   was   contended   on   behalf   of   the 

prosecution that the guilt of the accused stand proved beyond reasonable 

doubt  in   view   of   the   testimony  of  the  prosecutrix,  the  witnesses  to  the 

marriage   and   the   landlord   of   the   house   where   they   stayed   after   the 

marriage as husband and wife.  
              On going through the record, it is apparent that the accused 

himself has not denied the fact that he knew the complainant as he used to 
 go to her for collecting the installments of loan.  It is also not his plea that 

he was not married or that he was not having a daughter from his marriage. 

Though the accused has completely denied the factum of his marriage with 

the complainant CK, yet I find on going through the evidence brought on 

record   that   his   marriage   with   the   complainant   on   21.7.2008   has   been 

proved on record beyond doubt. 
               The testimony of PW4  Deepak Shasatri who solemnised their 

marriage,   coupled   with   the   deposition   of   PW2   who   was   one   of   the 

witnesses  of the marriage clearly establishes  the case of the prosecutrix 

that the accused married her on the aforesaid date at Arya Samaj Mandir, 

Yamuna   Bazar,   Delhi.     The   original   affidavits   submitted   by   the 

complainant   as   well   as   the   accused   at   the   time   of   solemnisation   of 

marriage, were produced by PW4 and their copies were duly exhibited on 

record.  There is no reason to disbleive either this documentary evidence or 

the testimony of PW4 who  not only proved the affidavits and the marriage 

certificate   but   also   correctly   identified   the   complainant   as   well   as   the 

accused stating that he had solemnized their marriage on 21.7.08.

               I   find   myself   unable   to   subscribe   to   the   argument   of   the 

defence   that   mere   non­examination   of   father   of   the   complainant   is 

sufficient   in   itself   to   throw   out   the   entire   case   or   to   disbelieve   the 

testimonies  of   other   witnesses  examined  on  record.      Even  without  the 

corroborative testimony of the father of the complainant, the allegations 
 leveled by the complainant, in my opinion, stand duly proved on record.

              It   has   been  brought  on  record  that  the  accused  married  the 

complainant  on  21.7.2008  despite  the  fact  that  he  was  already  married. 

This fact was revealed to the complainant much after their marriage while 

she was in the process of shifting to the house of her parents and when she 

found photocopy of ration card of the accused, it may be reiterated at the 

cost of repetion that in response to question no.16 in his statement u/s 313 

Cr.P.C., this fact was admitted by the accused when stated that everyone 

including   the   prosecutrix   was   having   knowledge   of   his   marriage   and 

daughter.  
              Hence, it is proved on record that during subsistance of his 

marriage,   accused   solemnised   marriage   with  the  prosecutrix   on   21.7.08 

which  was   not   a  valid   marriage.    The prosecutrix  consented  for  sexual 

intercourse with the accused under the belief that she is his legally wedded 

wife.   Accordingly, her consent can not be said to be free or voluntarily 

and was obviously given under misconception of fact within the meaning 

Section 19 IPC.  In Bhupinder Singh Vs. Union Territory of Chandigarh  

Crl. Appeal No. 1047/47 dated 10.7.2008, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in 

similar circumstances held that :   

              I   also   find   on   ongoing   to   the   evidence   on   record   that   the 

accused committed the offence punishable U/s 417 IPC in as much as he 

cheated   the   complainant   by   fraudulently   or   dishonestly   inducing   her   to 

marry him to establish sexual relation with him, without disclosing that he 

was already married and thereby he induced the prosecutrix to live with him 

as his wife, which she would not otherwise do if she were not so deceived, 

and thereby caused harm to the complainant in body and mind.   

              Accordingly,   in   the   light   of   the   above   discussion   and   the 

evidence on record, I find that the charge for offence U/s 376 and 417 IPC 

stand duly proved against the accused.
              With regard to the charge under Section 495 IPC also, I find 

that the complainant PW1 by way of her testimony proved that she came to 

know about marriage of the accused when she found the photocopy of his 

ration card containing details of his wife and other family members.   In his 

statement U/s 313 Cr.P.C. accused has not denied the factum of his earlier 

marriage and the daughter from the said marriage.   From the statements of 

PW1, 2 and 4 , it has been proved on record that the accused solemnized the 
 marriage   with   the   complainant   on   21.7.08   and   at   that   time   his   earlier 

marriage was already in subsistence.  It is not the plea of the accused that he 

was not already married. His plea that the complainant married him despite 

having knowledge of his previous marriage has not been proved on record.  

                 Moreover,   his   plea   in   response   to   question   no.15   in     the 

statement   under   Section   313   Cr.P.C.   that   prosecutrix   had   taken   out 

photocopy of his ration card from his bag during one of his visits to her 

office for collecting installments of loan, is also apparently an after thought. 

It   is   noteworthy   that   when   the   prosecutrix   was   cross   examined,   it   was 

suggested to her that accused had given his ration card to her in lieu of his 

identity card as his I­card had not been issued by the bank.  

                 Consequently  in  the light  of aforesaid  discussion,  I find that 

from the evidence led on record, the charges under Section 376/417 and 495 

IPC clearly stand proved against the accused Chetan Khanna.  Accordingly, 

he is convicted  for the said  offences.   Let him  be heard on the point  of 

sentence. 
Announced in the Open Court
on this 13th day of August, 2013
                                                         (Kaveri Baweja)   
                                  Additional Sessions Judge­Spl. FTC­2 (Central)
                                                             Tis Hazari Courts: Delhi.             
                             In the Court of Ms. Kaveri Baweja
                   Additional Sessions Judge­Spl. FTC­2 (Central)
                                Tis Hazari Courts: Delhi. 

Sessions Case No. : 44/11


Charanjeet Kaur D/o Ram Lal
R/o T­235/34A, Baljeet Nagar,
Hill Marg, New Delhi­110008


versus                   


Chetan Khanna
S/o Sh.R.S.Khanna
R/o M­617, Shakurpur Village,
J.J.Colony, New Delhi­110034


Case arising out of:

                        Vide   judgment   dated   13.08.2013,   the   above   named 

convict   viz.,   Chetan   Khanna   has   been   convicted   for   the   offences 
 punishable   under   Sections   376/417   and   495   IPC.     While   addressing 

arguments   on   the   quantum   of   sentence,   learned   counsel   Sh.Vikram 

Sharma,   Advocate   appearing   on   behalf   of   the   convict  has  prayed   for  a 

lenient view.  He has submitted that due to the offences committed by the 

above   named   convict,   his   family   is  likely  to   suffer  as  he  is  sole   bread 

earner   of  his  family.     It   is   submitted  that  the  father  of  the  convict  has 

already expired and he has a family comprising of 11 years old daughter, a 

minor   son   and   his   wife,   besides   his   brother  and   his  wife  who  are  also 

present in the court today.   It is submitted that the convict is earning his 

livelihood by plying three­wheeler and has no previous antecedents and is 

not a previous convict. 
                      On the other hand, Prosecution has vehemently argued 

that  the offences  alleged  to  have  been  proved  against  the  above  named 

convict  entail  him  for maximum  prescribed  punishment  and there is no 

ground of any leniency whatsoever in view of the fact that the accused has 

ruined the life of the innocent complainant  by inducing her to establish 

sexual relations with him by concealing the factum of his marriage and has 

thereby cheated her and committed the offence of rape besides committing 

offence punishable under Section 495 IPC. It is also submitted that there is 

a growing tendency of cheating the innocent girls by the people like the 

above named convict and a strong message needs to be sent to the society 

in order to curb such conduct in future. 
                       I have considered the rival submissions in the light of 

the   allegations   proved   on   record   against   the   convict   Chetan   Khanna. 

Although, on the one hand, it cannot be ignored that the convict Chetan 

Khanna   due   to   his   lust   ruined   the   life   of   the   innocent   complainant   by 

cheating   her   into   a   so   called  marriage  due  to  which  she  succumbed  to 

establish physical relations with him believing herself to be his lawfully 

wedded wife, yet  at the same time it is to be kept in mind that the wife and 

children  of  the  above  named  convict  shall  also  suffer due  to his  above 

conduct in which they had no role whatsoever to play.   The convict had 

thereby cheated not only the complainant but has also committed breach of 

trust of his wife and children by committing the aforesaid offences.  Hence, 

in these circumstances, I see no ground to reduce the sentence for seven 

years for the offence punishable under Section 376 IPC. 

                      Accordingly, having regard to the aforesaid, interest of 

justice   would   be   met,   if   convict   Chetan   Khanna   S/o   Sh.R.S.Khanna   is 

sentenced as under:

                All the sentences shall run concurrently.  It is directed that the 

above   mentioned   fine   shall   be   paid   by   way   of   compensation   to   the 

Prosecutrix 'CK' under the provisions of Section 357 Cr.PC.  It is clarified 

that   the   said   fine   has   been   imposed   upon   the   convict   Chetan   Khanna 

keeping in view his financial condition.  Besides the aforesaid fine, I also 

deem it appropriate to recommend payment of adequate compensation to 

the above named Prosecutrix/complainant 'CK' as may be deemed fit by 

the DLSA under the provisions of Section 357A Cr.PC. 

                        Ordered accordingly.  Copy of this judgment and order 

on sentence be supplied to the convict free of cost and be also sent to the 

Secretary,   Delhi   Legal   Services   Authority   (Central   District)   for 

information and compliance. File be consigned to record room.  

                                                        (Kaveri Baweja)   
                                  Additional Sessions Judge­Spl. FTC­2 (Central)
                                                             Tis Hazari Courts: Delhi.   
                                                          17.08.2013          
                                                  Charanjeet Kaur Vs. Chetan Khanna
                                                                                         CC No. : 37/1
                                                                                   PS :  Patel Nagar
                                                                                     SC No. : 44/2011
13.08.2013
Present :            Ms Neeta Gupta­Ld. APP for the State.
                     Accused on bail with counsel.  
                               Vide separate judgment announced today in open court, 

Accused Chetan Khanna is found guilty for committal of offence punishable 

U/s 376/417 & 495 IPC.  He be taken into custody forthwith and sent to J/c. 

To come up for order on sentence on 16.8.2013.
             At  this  stage,  Ld. Defence counsel  requested  for some  other 

date on the ground that he has to attend some matters on 16.8.2013 at Saket 

Court.   At the request of Ld. Counsel, earlier given date stands cancelled. 

To come up for argument on the point of sentence on 17.8.2013. 

                                                                              (Kaveri Baweja)              
                                                    Additional Sessions Judge­Spl. FTC­2 (Central)
                                                                               Tis Hazari Courts: Delhi.          
                                                                              13.8.2013.                         
                                           Charanjeet Kaur Vs. Chetan Khanna
                                                                        CC No. : 37/1
                                                                   PS :  Patel Nagar
                                                                     SC No. : 44/2011
17.08.2013
Present :             Ms Neeta Gupta­Ld. APP for the State.
                      Accused produced from JC.
                      Sh.Vikram Sharma - ld. Counsel for the accused. 


                      Vide   separate   order   on   sentence   announced   today   in 

       open court, Accused Chetan Khanna has been sentenced as under :

       1)   For   the   offence   punishable   under   Section   495   IPC,   the   above 

       named convict is sentenced to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 7 

       years in addition to fine of Rs.5,000/­, in default whereof he shall 

       undergo SI for 2 years;

                       All the sentences shall run concurrently.  It is directed that the 
 above   mentioned   fine   shall   be   paid   by   way   of   compensation   to   the 

Prosecutrix 'CK' under the provisions of Section 357 Cr.PC.  It is clarified 

that   the   said   fine   has   been   imposed   upon   the   convict   Chetan   Khanna 

keeping in view his financial condition.  Besides the aforesaid fine, I also 

deem it appropriate to recommend payment of adequate compensation to 

the above named Prosecutrix/complainant 'CK' as may be deemed fit by 

the DLSA under the provisions of Section 357A Cr.PC. 

                          Copy   of   this   judgment   and   order   on   sentence   be 

supplied to the convict free of cost and be also sent to the Secretary, Delhi 

Legal   Services   Authority   (Central   District)   for   information   and 

compliance. File be consigned to record room.  
                                                             (Kaveri Baweja)              
                                            Additional Sessions Judge­Spl. FTC­2 (Central)
                                                                       Tis Hazari Courts: Delhi.          
                                                                     17.8.2013.                         
