1.          The factual matrix of the prosecution case is that  prosecutrix  (PW3) 
aged  15 years is the step daughter of accused.  Complainant Smt.  Rakesh 
(PW1), who is mother of prosecutrix has alleged in  her complaint Ex.PW1/A 
that her husband was sexually abusing  prosecutrix  for the last 2 years. On 
27.2.12 accused again attempted to rape prosecutrix but she ran away from 
there and complained to her neighbourer. PW1 has  mentioned that 6 years 
before her husband has died and she was married with accused. Accused 
was   arrested.    After   investigation   police   filed   chargesheet   against   the 
accused u/s. 376/377 IPC. 
2.          Charge u/s.376/377   IPC was given to accused, to which he pleaded 
not guilty and claimed trial. 
3.          To   prove   its   case   prosecution   examined   11   witnesses.   PW1   Smt. 
Rakesh is the wife of accused and is complainant, she proved her complaint 
Ex.PW1/A. PW2 Smt. Renu is the neighbourer of complainant, to whom on 
27.2.12 prosecutrix had complained about her sexual abuse by accused. PW3 
is the  prosecutrix, she admitted her signatures on her statement Ex.PW3/A 


FIR No. 68/12                                                               page    1 of 15 page 
 recorded by Ld. M.M. PW4 Smt. Mukta Kumar, Vice Vice Principal, Rajkiya 
Sarvodya   Kanya  Vidhyalya,   B   Block,   New   Ashok   Nagar,     proved   copy   of 
transfer certificate of prosecutrix and relevant entries regarding her date of 
birth in   admission & withdrawal register Ex.PW4/A and PW4/B. PW5 Smt. 
Charanjeet Kaur,  Ex­ Principal of Defence Public School proved admission 
& withdrawal register containing entries regarding prosecutrix as Ex.PW5/A. 
PW6   ASI   Zahid   Hussain   was   duty   officer,   he   proved   FIR   Ex.PW6/A   and 
endorsement on rukka Ex.PW6/B. PW7 ASI Sobhagyawati is the part IO, she 
has sent exhibits to the FSL and exhibited the FSL result as Ex.PW7/A to 
Ex.PW7/C. PW8 Dr. Shubha Gupta, Senior Resident (Gynae),  LBS Hospital 
proved   the   MLC   of  prosecutrix  as   Ex.PW8/A.   PW9   HC   Pramanand   is   the 
MHCM, he proved the relevant entries in register No. 19 pertaining to this 
case   as   Ex.PW9/A   to   PW9/C.   PW10   ASI   Asha   Sharma   is   the   part   IO,   she 
proved MLC of the accused Ex.PW10/A. PW11 SI Nitu Kumar is the IO, he 
proved   the     DD   No.36A   as   Ex.PW11/A,   his   endorsement   on   complaint 
Ex.PW11/B,  seizure   memos  Ex.PW11/C   and   Ex.PW11/D   vide   which 
pulandas given by lady Ct. Shikha and Ct. Om Jeet was seized, arrest memo, 
personal search memo and disclosure statement as Ex.PW1/E to Ex.PW1/G. 
He proved site plan Ex.PW11/H. 
4.          Statement   of   accused   was   recorded   u/s.   294   CrPC   wherein   he 
admitted   his   MLC   as   Ex.PA1   and   report   regarding   his   sexual   potency   as 
Ex.PA2. 
5.          On the basis of the incriminating evidence against the accused , his 
statement   was   recorded   u/s.   313   CrPC   wherein   he   denied   the   entire 
prosecution  evidence  against  him.  He  stated  that  prosecutrix  was  having 
love affair with a boy living in their vicinity. He objected to it several times, 
due to this reason PW1 and PW3 had falsely implicated him in this case. 
Accused led defence evidence and examined his father Sh. Prakash Chand as 
DW1. 
Gaurav Vashishth, Ld. Defence counsel for accused.  Perused the case file.
7.          The Ld. APP submitted that statements of   complainant (PW1) and 
prosecutrix  (PW3)   are   consistent   regarding   the   allegations   made   against 
accused.  It is stated that  PW1 is the wife of accused and is also having a 
daughter from him and there is no reason to presume that she would have 
made false allegations against him. It is stated that PW2 who is neighbourer 
of complainant has supported the statements of PW1 and PW3.  It is stated 
that MLC of prosecutrix supports her statement. 
8.           Sh. Gaurav Vashisht, Ld. Defence counsel for accused submitted that 
statement   of   PW1   and   statement   of   prosecutrix       PW3     are   full   of 
contradictions.     It   is   stated   that   as   per   PW1,   prosecutrix   was   raped   on 
27.02.12 but as per prosecutrix,  accused only  attempted  to rape her.  It is 
stated that as per PW1, prosecutrix was aged 14 years at the time of incident 
but prosecutrix during her cross examination has admitted  that her cousin 
Kukoo is six month younger to her and she is married.  It is stated that this 
proves that prosecutrix was more than 18 years of age and deliberately PW1 
and prosecutrix  are telling her age as 14­15 years, which causes dent in their 
credibility. It is stated that prosecution   was having an affair with a boy in 
vicinity,   accused   used   to   object   to   it   and     reputation   of   the   prosecutrix 
stands established from her own testimony wherein she has admitted that 
whenever she used to visit the house of her friend Monika  her mother used 
to get annoyed with her . It is stated that DW1 who  is father of accused has 
also  supported    the  defence  taken by accused  that since  prosecutrix was 
having illicit relation with a boy   in the vicinity and he used to object to it 
due to this reason they falsely implicated him in this case.  It is stated that 
PW1   was   not   married   with   accused   as   no   proof     in   this   case     has   been 
produced by PW1 and PW3. It is stated that as per prosecutrix,  on 27.02.12 
she has not informed about the alleged incident to her mother i.e. PW1 then 


FIR No. 68/12                                                           page    3 of 15 page 
 how directly  PW1 reached at the house of PW2 Renu remains unexplained 
which further creates doubt on the testimonies of PW1 and PW3.  It is stated 
that   prosecutrix has made considerable improvements   before this court 
which further dents  her credibility. 
9.          Prosecutrix was examined as PW3, she deposed that she is studying in 
9th class and residing alongwith her mother and two sisters. Her father had 
died many years ago when she was too young. Accused is his father as her 
mother   had  married  him.   Her  mother   is  working   in  sector   7,   Noida   in  a 
company. Her mother leaves the house at 8.30 a.m and returns at 5.30 p.m. 
On 27.2.12 at about 2.30/3 p.m she was present in the house. Accused was 
also  present in the house. Both her sisters were away on tuition and her 
mother had gone on duty. Accused was drinking liquor and did 'zabardasti' 
with her. Accused tried to remove her clothes. She pretended to the accused 
that she wants to go to bathroom, on this accused released her. She ran away 
from her house after bolting the door from outside. She went to the house of 
Renu aunty who was living at some distance from her house.  Aunty was not 
in the house and her husband was there, due to this reason she did not go 
inside the house and went to the house of her friend  Monika Yadav. Monika 
was sleeping, her mother told her to go to the house of Meenu as she will not 
wake   up   Monika.    Whenever   she   used   to   visit   the   house   of   Monika   her 
mother used to get annoyed and used to ask her not to come to her house to 
meet Monika. Her mother showed her the house of Meenu and she went to 
the house of Meenu. She remained there  till 4 p.m.  At 4 p.m she went to the 
Church where her sisters used to take tuition.  Her sisters met her  outside 
the Church as their tuition was over and they  all went to the house of Renu 
aunty. She told all the facts to aunty. At 7.30 her  mother came there. Aunty 
told everything to her mother and her mother made a complaint to police. 
10.         The   witness   further   deposed   that   accused   used   to   work   in   Stand 
Apartments at New Ashok  Nagar,  near Metro Station.  A Bhaiya who lives 


FIR No. 68/12                                                           page    4 of 15 page 
 near the house of aunty also came there and aunty told all the facts to him. 
Her   mother,   aunty   and   her   husband   and   that   Bhaiya   went   to   Stand 
Apartments and brought accused in the street of Aunty.  Accused was beaten 
up by the public there. Police came there and   took her, her mother and 
accused to PS.  Police recorded her statement and took her to LBS Hospital 
for medical examination.     Her suit and undergarments were seized by the 
doctor in the hospital.     Next day she was produced in the court and   her 
statement was recorded by Ld.  M.M.  She correctly identified  one  pyjami, 
one underwear, one ladies shirt and one brazier as Ex.P1 to P4. The witness 
was cross­examined by Ld. APP. During cross­examination she admitted that 
accused was doing 'Galat Kaam' with her under threat for the last 2 years 
and due to fear she was not telling it to anyone. She further admitted that 
accused also used to come at the house after drinking liquor and used to do 
'Galat   Kaam'   with   her   under   threat.   She   admitted   that   accused   was   also 
taken to LBS Hospital and his medical was also got done there. She admitted 
that  when her  mother  used  to go on job, accused  used  to rape her after 
closing her inside the room. She admitted that accused is addict of liquor 
and   for   the   last   two   years   has   raped   her   number   of   times.   She   further 
admitted   that   sometimes   accused   also   used   to   put   his   penis   inside   her 
mouth.   She   admitted   that   2­3   times   accused   has   also   inserted   his   penis 
inside her rectum. She also admitted that accused had threatened to kill her 
mother   and   sisters   and   due   to   this   reason   she   had   not   told   about   it   to 
anyone. 
11.         PW1  Smt. Rakesh  is the  complainant.  She is mother of  prosecutrix 
and wife of the accused. She deposed that prosecutrix is her  daughter aged 
14 years. Her first husband Subhash  had expired seven years back and after 
his death she was married with accused in the year 2000. One daughter was 
born out of this wedlock.  After dropping her children at school, she used to 
go   to   her     work   at   about   8   AM   and   used   to   come   back   at   about   6   PM. 
FIR No. 68/12                                                           page    5 of 15 page 
 Accused used to work as a driver and used to consume  liquor daily, due to 
this   reason   he   used   to   take   leaves   and   he   was   relieved   from   his   job.   On 
27.02.12  when she returned from her job, prosecutrix told her that  accused 
had   raped     her   in   the   absence   of   her   sisters   and   accused   was     regularly 
raping her  for the last 2 years.  Accused asked prosecutrix not to disclose it 
to any one otherwise he will  kill her and her mother.  She tried to search the 
accused but he could not be traced and she made a call to him   but his 
mobile   was   switched   off.     After   sometime   public   persons   of   the   locality 
brought  the accused there and gave him beatings. Someone made a call to 
the police. Police came there and she made a complaint. Prosecutrix  was 
medically examined at the  Hospital. Her undergarments and clothes  were 
taken by the doctor in the hospital. 
12.         PW2 Smt. Renu also supported the   statement made by  prosecutrix. 
She deposed that on 27.2.12 at about 2.30­3.00 p.m prosecutrix came to her 
house, she was perplexed and told her that accused was consuming liquor in 
the house and had  tried to commit rape on her. Prosecutrix further told her 
that   accused   used   to   commit   rape   upon   her   for   the   last   2   years.   Public 
persons of the locality gathered there and gave beatings to accused.  
13.         One of the main contentions  raised  on behalf of   accused     is that 
complainant PW1 is not wife of accused and   in fact   accused had helped 
PW1 in getting compensation after death of her husband  while living  in  her 
native village District Muzzaffarnagar, UP and here in Delhi accused   only 
used to help PW1. As per PW1, her first husband   had expired seven years 
back   and   she   got   married   with   accused   in   year   2008.     As   per   her,   one 
daughter namely Sejal  was born out of this wedlock.  Same is the statement 
made   by   PW2   that   accused   is   step   father   of   the   prosecutrix.   Even 
prosecutrix has stated that after death of her father, her mother had married 
with accused.  Chand as   DW1 who stated that   after death of husband of PW1, accused 
helped  her in getting compensation in the accident claim. PW1 developed 
friendship with his son.  Her brother in law (devar) Ashok  used to object to 
it. A panchayat was called by Ashok. Father of PW1 also visited their house 
and he helped PW1 to elope with accused from their village.  Accused used 
to live with them at Ghaziabad and occasionally  he used to visit the house 
of PW1.  DW1 has denied the suggestion that during his cross examination 
that  accused is husband of PW1.  Though PW1 has not produced any proof 
regarding her marriage with  accused  but she has specifically    stated  that 
they got married in 2000 and one daughter namely Sejal was born out of 
wedlock. There is no denial on the part of the accused if girl namely   Sejal 
was not born  to PW1 sired by him.  As per record, address of accused, PW1 
and  PW3 are the same. This further proves that accused was residing in the 
same house with PW1 and PW3. Since it was second marriage of PW2, it is 
customary in the society that such marriages are performed in   a simple 
ceremony. Even   DW1 admitted that accused sometimes used to visit the 
house   of   PW1.     PW2   Renu   who   is   residing   in   the   neighbourhood     has 
specifically stated that accused was step father of the prosecutrix and was 
residing  in the same house as PW1 and PW3. I thereby do not subscribe  to 
the contention raised by Ld. Defence counsel for accused that accused was 
just known to PW1 and PW3 and was not married with PW1. 
15.           Though   not   very   irrelevant,   Ld.   Counsel   for   accused   has   assailed 
prosecution story and  statements of PW1 and PW3 regarding the age of the 
prosecutrix,  Ld. Defence counsel for accused submitted that he  is assailing 
age   of   the   prosecutrix     to   dent   her     credibility.   Ex.PW4./A   is   the   school 
leaving/transfer certificate of prosecutrix issued by   Aman Bharti Modern 
School where her age is mentioned as 15.10.1998.  Ex. PW4/B is admission 
withdrawal register     of   R.S. K.V,   New Ashok Nagar, Delhi   where also her 
date of birth is mentioned as 15.10.1998.  Ex. PW5/A is the record of Defence 


FIR No. 68/12                                                           page    7 of 15 page 
 Public School, New Ashok Nagar, Delhi  where also prosecutrix has studied, 
as per their record also, date of birth of prosecutrix is the same. Both PW1 
and prosecutrix   herself had told her age at the time of this incident as 14 
years.   Merely because cousin   of prosecutrix who is younger to her by six 
months got married, solely on this ground it cannot be held that prosecutrix 
was major at the time of this incident. 
16.         Ld.   Counsel   for   accused   has   assailed   the   credibility   of   prosecutrix 
stating   that   he   has   made   considerable   improvements     in   her   deposition 
before  this   court  which  creates   shadow  of   doubt     on  her  testimony.    Ex. 
PW3/A is the statement of prosecutrix recorded by Ld. MM under Section 
164 Cr.P.C wherein also she has made similar allegations against accused as 
made   by   her   while   deposing   before   this   court   as   PW3.     Except   minor 
contradictions, in the statement of prosecutrix vis a vis statement Ex.PW3/A, 
her testimony is consistent on all the major particulars. Reliance is placed 
upon   MANU/SC/7825/2008 Moti Lal Vs. State of M.P. where  the Apex Court 
has observed that the Court shoulders a great responsibility while trying an 
accused   on   charges   of   rape.  The   Court   must   deal   with   such   cases   with 
utmost sensitivity. The Courts should examine the broader probabilities of a 
case   and   not   get   swayed   by   minor   contradictions   or   insignificant 
discrepancies   in   the   statement   of   the   prosecutrix,   which   are   not   of   fatal 
nature, to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution case.
17.         In State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. Asha Ram AIR 2006 SC 381 wherein 
also  father was convicted  for committing rape  on his daughter. Apex Court 
has observed that   it is now well settled principle of law that conviction can 
be   founded   on   the   testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   alone   unless   there   are 
compelling reasons for seeking corroboration.  The evidence of a prosecutrix 
is   more   reliable   than   that   of   an   injured   witness.     It   is   also   well   settled 
principle of law that corroboration as a condition for judicial reliance on the 
testimony of the prosecutrix is not a requirement of law  but a guidance of 


FIR No. 68/12                                                           page    8 of 15 page 
 prudence under given circumstances.  Apex Court has further observed that
                       "   There   can   never   be   more   graver   and   heinous 
                       crime than the father being charged of raping his 
                       own daughter. He not only delicts  the law but  it is 
                       a betrayal   of trust.   The father is the fortress and 
                       refuge   of   his   daughter   in   whom   the   daughter 
                       trusts. Charged of raping his own daughter under 
                       his   refuge   and   fortress   is   worst     than   the 
                       gamekeeper   becoming   a   poacher   and   treasury 
                       guard becoming a robber". 
18.          Ex. PW8/A is the MLC of the prosecutrix wherein also  in history  it is 
mentioned that " sexual intercourse  by step father  on and off  for  the last 
two years  when mother is not at home and out for work as told  by victim". 
As per MLC, her hymen was found torn and vaginal orifice was admitting 
two fingers. MLC of the prosecutrix supports her statement.  Statement  of 
prosecutrix is  found to be believable and reliable. 
19.         Other contention raised by Ld. Defence counsel for accused is that as 
per complainant PW1, prosecutrix   had complained her that accused   had 
raped  her on that day but as per prosecutrix, accused did 'jabardasti' with 
her   and   tried   to   remove     her   clothes.   It   is   stated   that     this   is   a   major 
contradiction   in   the   statement   of   this   witness   which   shatters     the 
prosecution case. As per PW1, her daughter had told her  that  accused had 
raped  her in the absence  of her sisters and accused has raped  her regularly 
for the last two years.  But as per prosecutrix,  on 27.02.13 at 2.30­3.00 PM, 
she was alone in the house as  her  both sisters were away on tuition and her 
mother   had   gone   for   her   duty.     Accused   was   drinking   liquor   and   did 
Zabardasti with her.  Accused tried to remove her clothes. She pretended to 
accused that she wants to go to bathroom.  On this accused released her. She 
ran away from her house after bolting   the door from outside. PW1   while 


FIR No. 68/12                                                           page    9 of 15 page 
 deposing before this court has made improvement regarding the allegation 
of rape   committed by accused upon prosecutrix   on 27.02.12 vis a vis her 
complaint Ex.PW1/A.   Bottom line of allegations against accused is that as 
per PW1, prosecutrix was regularly   subjecting   prosecutrix to horrific and 
sadistic     sexual assault   for the last two years.   In my opinion, it is   minor 
discrepancy     in   the   statement   of   PW1.    Law   is   settled   that   overmuch 
importance cannot be attached to minor discrepancies. Reliance is placed 
upon   Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai Vs. State of Gujarat, (1983) 3 SCC 
217 wherein Apex Court has observed that overmuch importance cannot be 
attached to minor discrepancies, by and large a witness cannot be expected 
to   possess   a   photographic   memory   as   if   a   video   tape   is   replayed   on   the 
mental   screen.   Ordinarily   it   so   happens     that   a   witness   is   overtaken   by 
events. The powers of observation differ from person to person. Ordinarily a 
witness   cannot   be   expected   to   recall   accurately   the   sequence   of   events 
which takes place in rapid succession or in a short time span.
20.          Other contention  raised by Ld. Defence counsel for accused is that 
PW2 is  a lady residing in the neighbourhood of PW1 and PW3 and with her 
assistance , PW1 made a false complaint to get  him falsely implicated in this 
case.     Ld.   Counsel   for   accused   has   drawn     the   attention     of   this   court 
towards the statement made by PW2 during her cross examination. During 
her cross PW2 has stated that 15 days before the incident, she had visited 
the house of prosecutrix, at that time, accused was also present in the house 
and she had   warned accused if   he will beat Smt. Rakesh (PW1) she will 
make   a   complaint   against   him   in   the   police.   PW2   has   clarified     that   her 
daughter   had visited the house of accused and   had told her that accused 
had beaten PW1 and due to this reason she had gone to their house. PW2 is 
residing   in   the   neighbourhood   of   PW1   and   PW3.     She   had   throughly 
supported the statement of PW1 and PW3.  It was  in her house  prosecutrix 
took shelter after she ran away from her house as accused attempted to rape 


FIR No. 68/12                                                           page    10 of 15 page 
 her.  I find no substance  in the submission made by Ld. Defence counsel for 
accused. 
21.         It is further submitted   on behalf of accused that as per prosecutrix, 
when she was present in the house of PW2 and  her mother directly reached 
there. It is stated that how  PW1 directly reached at the house of PW2 when 
admittedly  by her,  she was not aware with this incident.  It is stated that this 
shows  that the  entire story was concocted  by PW1, PW2 and PW3 to falsely 
implicate accused in this case. As per prosecutrix,   at 7.30 PM her mother 
reached   at   the   house   of   Aunty(PW2).   Statement   of   PW1   is   silent     to   this 
effect.  As per her,  on 27.02.13 when she came back in the evening from her 
job, prosecutrix told her that accused had raped her and he had   regularly 
raped her for the last two years.  How PW1 reached at the house of  PW2, if 
she first reached at her house, from there she reached at the house of PW2 or 
directly she reached at the house of PW2, these are the minor details of the 
incident.     Any   discrepancy     in   such   type   of   detail,     in   the   statements   of 
witnesses, do not cast aspersion  on her credibility.  Moreover, statement of 
PW1 was recorded by this court  after seven months of this incident and with 
passage of time, one tends to forget minor details.
22.         Defence taken by   accused is that prosecutrix was having an affair 
with a boy in the vicinity , accused used to object to it and due to this reason, 
PW1 and PW3 got him falsely implicated  in this case. This is a defence taken 
by   accused     during     cross   examination   of   PW1   and   PW3,   during   his 
statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C  and even DW1 has stated so. 
Who was this boy and where in the vicinity  he was residing  has not been 
elaborated  by accused  or  by his defence witness DW1. In view of clear and 
consistent statement of PW1 and PW3, defence taken by accused appears  to 
be an afterthought and  bald.
23.         Other contradictions are also  pointed out  by Ld. Defence counsel for 
accused     in the statements of prosecution witnesses.     As pointed out by 


FIR No. 68/12                                                           page    11 of 15 page 
 him,   as per PW1, she was residing in the said house for the last two years 
but   as   per   PW2,   PW1   was   residing   there   for   the   last   seven   years.   Other 
contradiction pointed out is  that as per PW1,  no 'Panchayat' was called in 
her native place but as per PW2, Panchayat was called. These contradictions 
are   minor   and   inconsequential   not   affecting   the   prosecution   case   or 
testimony of these witnesses in any manner.
24.          Complainant PW1 is the mother of  three daughters. Prosecutrix who 
is aged 14 years   is eldest. She has also one daughter named Sejal   from 
accused.    She is  working  in Noida  factory    to  run her  hearth  and  for  up 
brining  of her children.  Both PW1 and PW3 have stated  that accused did 
not   use   to   do   anything   as   he   was   addict   to   liquor.     It   is   beyond   any 
comprehension     that   PW1   would   have   complained   against     her     own 
husband without any reason. Ex. PA1 is the MLC of the prosecutrix   dated 
27.02.13 at 11.40 PM and at that time  smell of alcohol was positive from his 
mouth. This MLC supports statement of prosecutrix that  on the day of the 
incident,     accused   was   drinking   liquor     at   about   2.30­3.00   PM   when   he 
attempted  to rape her. It further supports statement of PW1 and PW3 that 
accused   was   addict   to   liquor.   This   court   thereby   finds   no   reason   to 
disbelieve the statements of PW1 and  prosecutrix PW3.
25.         In   addition   to   allegation   of   rape,   prosecutrix     has   deposed   that 
sometimes accused   also used to put his penis inside her mouth and 2­3 
times  he had also inserted  his penis  inside her rectum. 
26.         In view of aforesaid reasons,  it is held that prosecution has been able 
to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt.   Accused is held guilty for the 
offence  punishable under Section 376/377 IPC. He is accordingly convicted. 
ANNOUNCED IN OPEN COURT 
ON  27.08.2013
                                                                                             (SANJAY GARG)
                                                                           ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE(EAST) ­ 01
                                                                         KARKARDOOMA COURTS : DELHI


FIR No. 68/12                                                           page    12 of 15 page 
     IN THE COURT OF  SANJAY GARG :  ADDITIONAL SESSIONS  JUDGE - 01
                                                                     
                (EAST) :KARKARDOOMA COURTS : DELHI

SC No. 43/10
FIR No. 68/12
PS New Ashok Nagar 
Under Section  :  376/377 IPC 

State         Versus                                         Yogesh S/o. Parkash,
                                                             R/o. B­698, New Ashok Nagar, Delhi. 
                                                             Permanent Address : Vill. Haria Khera
                                                             Distt. Mujaffarnagar, UP
ORDER ON SENTENCE 


1.           I have heard arguments of  Sh. Maqsood Ahmed  Ld. Addl. PP for the 
State and Sh. Gaurav Vashisht Ld. Defence  Counsel   for convict  Yogesh on 
quantum of sentence.  
2.            Ld.   APP   submits   that   keeping   in   view   gravity   of   the   offences 
maximum punishment be awarded to the convict.  Ld. Defence counsel for 
convict submits that the convict is first offender, not involved in any  other 
criminal   case.   It   is   stated   that   he   is   35   years   of   age,   having   a   family 
constituting old and ill  father  dependent upon him for his livelihood. It is 
stated that convict is in J/C since beginning.   It is stated that he is the sole 
bread  earner of the family and requested that lenient view be taken against 
him while awarding sentence.   In support of submissions, ld. counsel for 
convict relied upon  2012(8) AD(Delhi) 702 Sandeep Vs. State.
3.          The victim in this case is just aged  about 13 years and step daughter 
of convict.   She was repeatedly   subjected to horrific and sadistic sexual 
assault.   A   recent   report   by   Asian   Centre   for   Women   Rights   says   that 
incidents   of   child   rape   have   multiplied   in   the   last   decade.   The   recent 
horrific incidents of rape have created a furore in the society.   It appears 
across   the   nation   the   childhood   is   at   risk.  The   children   of   this   age   are 


FIR No. 68/12                                                               page    13 of 15 page 
 vulnerable and are easy prey to such sexual assaults.
4.          In  State   of   Himachal   Pradesh   Vs.   Asha   Ram   AIR   2006   SC   381 
wherein also   father was convicted   for committing rape   on his daughter.                         betrayal  of trust.  The father is the fortress and refuge 
                        of   his   daughter   in   whom   the   daughter   trusts. 
                        Charged of raping his own daughter under his refuge 
                        and fortress is worst  than the gamekeeper becoming 
                        a poacher and treasury guard becoming a robber". 
5.          The facts of the present case are distinguishable from the facts of the 
judgment relied upon by Ld. Defence Counsel for accused.   
6.            In  view   of   these   circumstances   the   convict   deserves   no   leniency. 
Accordingly he is sentenced as under:­ 

            For the offence u/s. 376 IPC he is sentenced to undergo RI for 10 
years     and   shall   also   be   liable   to   pay   fine   of   Rs.  2,000/­   in   default   to 
undergo SI for two months.
              For the offence u/s. 377 IPC he is sentenced to   undergo RI for 5 
years     and   shall   also   be   liable   to   pay   fine   of   Rs.1,000/­   in   default   to 
undergo SI for one month. 
             Both  the sentences  to run concurrently. 
7.          Benefit   of   section   428   Cr.   PC   be   given   to   the   convict.     Copy   of 
judgment and this order be given to the convict free of cost.  Copy of order 


FIR No. 68/12                                                           page    14 of 15 page 
 be sent separately to DLSA, East with a direction to pay compensation to 
the victim as per the provisions of guidelines of Delhi Government under 
Victim Compensation Scheme.
            File be consigned to record room.   
