                The facts in brief of the prosecution case are
that prosecutrix --------x----, d/o Sh. -----------y--------, r/o
----------------z----------------------------, herein after referred to
as the prosecutrix was residing at above mentioned
address. Her friend Ms. Geeta was also residing in nearby
house. Sh. Naseem,              herein after referred to as the
accused, used to come at the house of Geeta for doing the
work of electrician. He was running his shop at 30 foota
Road,         Kabir   Nagar,     Shahdra,         Delhi-   110032.      On
25.03.2009, there was a problem of electricity supply in
the house of the prosecutrix and she called the accused to

SC No.83/13                    State vs. Naseem                Page 1 of 27
 repair the said electricity supply and thereafter visiting
terms         of   the   accused    with       the   prosecutrix    were
established. In the month of May, 2009, the accused
invited the prosecutrix at his house at Seelampur, Delhi to
attend a function. He also disclosed that her friend Ms.
Geeta would also attend that function. Believing the words
of the accused, the prosecutrix reached at the house of the
accused where he and his brothers Nasir (not arrested) and
Nadeem (not arrested) were also present. On reaching at
the house of the accused, she found that nobody else was
there except them. So, she showed her desire to return to
her house but Nadeem asked the prosecutrix to stay and in
the meantime, Nasir brought             cold drink and offered the
same to the prosecutrix and told her that the accused was
just coming. When she was in the process of drinking cold
drink, they asked her to finish the cold drink promptly as
she had to associate in the work for organizing the
function. After drinking the cold drink, the prosecutrix
became semi-conscious and she felt intoxicated. The
accused and his brothers made physical relationship with
her without her consent and permission and when she
regained her consciousness she told them that she would
make a complaint to the police then, the accused persons
told her not to do so and they further assured her that the
accused would marry her. They also threatened that in

SC No.83/13                 State vs. Naseem                  Page 2 of 27
 case she would not obey their advice, they would destroy
her life and she will not be able to show her face in the
society or they would also kill her. Finding no other way,
she kept quite. The accused committed rape on her on
various occasions on the false pretext of marriage and
threatened         to   kill    her.   Due       to   repeated    rape,     the
prosecutrix became pregnant. She brought that fact of
pregnancy in the knowledge of the accused, who became
very aggressive and asked her to abort the pregnancy but
she refused to do so. The accused started beating her
mercilessly. She made hue and cry and the accused ran
away from that place. The accused called the prosecutrix
at the house of his friend at Gokalpuri where he again
made physical relationship with her on the pretext of
solemnizing marriage with her and to adopt her child. As
the accused failed to fulfill their promises, therefore, she
made a complaint dated 16.07.2011 to the Commissioner
of Police and sent its copy to DCP Seelampur and SHO PS
Seelampur, Delhi but they did not take any action. Then,
she filed a complaint before Ld ACMM. The case was
marked        to    Ms.        Bhawani      Sharma,      Ld.     Metropolitan
Magistrate. Vide order dated 16.08.2011, Ld, MM directed
the SHO to file status report. The prosecutrix was taken to
GTB hospital Shahdra, Delhi on 21.08.2011 where she was
medically examined and her MLC and emergency card

SC No.83/13                       State vs. Naseem                  Page 3 of 27
 were prepared. It was also mentioned in the MLC that the
prosecutrix was pregnant for 7 ½ months at the time of her
examination. Vide order dated 06.09.2011 Ld. MM directed
the SHO PS Seelampur to register a case and to investigate
the matter as per law. In compliance of that order FIR No.
350/11, u/s 328/313/511/376/506/34 IPC was registered on
07.09.2011. IO inspected the place of occurrence on
12.09.2011      and     prepared      site     plan.   On   30.09.2011,
accused Naseem was arrested and his arrest memo and
personal search memo were prepared. He was interrogated
and his disclosure statement was recorded. He was also
taken to GTB Hospital, Delhi where his MLC was prepared.
His samples were taken and Doctor observed that his
secondary sexual character (Penis) was well developed.
The samples were taken into possession vide seizure
memo. The prosecutrix was produced before Ld. M.M. for
recording her statement u/s 164 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, herein after referred to as the Code. After
completion      of    investigation     police     filed    charge-sheet
against the accused Naseem for his trial for offence
punishable u/s 328/313/511/376/506/34 IPC.
2.            Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate after supplying of
copies of charge sheet and documents to the accused
committed this case to the court of sessions and the case

SC No.83/13                 State vs. Naseem                   Page 4 of 27
 was assigned to Sh. Rakesh Kumar, Ld. ASJ, Karkardooma
Courts, Delhi.
3.            Vide order dated 15.02.2012, the court opined
that there was prima facie sufficient material on record for
framing of charge against the accused for the offences
punishable u/s 328/376/506/120-B IPC. Therefore, charge
against the accused for his trial for the said offences was
framed and read over to him in vernacular language. He
pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
4.            The prosecution, in order to prove its case
examined Ct. Naveen as PW1; HC Surender Kumar as PW2;
HC Narain Singh as PW3; Ct. Harjeet Singh as PW4; the
prosecutrix ------x------ as PW5; and Dr. Imran Ahmed as
PW6.
5.            Vide   order    No.20/372-512/F.3.(4)/ASJ/01/2013
dated 04.01.2013, on constitution of Special Fast Track
Courts for trial of sexual offences, Hon'ble District &
Sessions Judge, transferred this case to this court.
6.            The prosecution further examined Smt. Kamlesh
as PW7; Dr. Shilpa Khanna, Department of Pediatrics, GTB
Hospital as PW8; Dr. Ritu Khatuja Department of Ob&G,

SC No.83/13                  State vs. Naseem          Page 5 of 27
 GTB Hospital as PW9; ASI Suman as PW10 and Ms. Sunita
as PW11.
7.            After closing of prosecution evidence statement
of the accused u/s 313 of the Code was recorded. All the
material and incriminating evidence was put to him.
Accused admitted that he was electrician by profession
and he was having his shop near Nathu Colony, Kabir
Nagar, Delhi and that he was visiting the prosecutrix at her
house and had assured her to marry her after talking with
his parents and that he was arrested on 30.09.2011 and
his arrest memo and personal search memo were prepared
and that he was medically examined at the GTB hospital on
the same day and that PW-6 Dr. Imran Ahmad prepared his
MLC Ex. PW-6/C and opined that he was capable to perform
sexual intercourse and that his samples were taken and
were seized vide memo Ex PW-1/D and that PW-7 Smt.
Kamlesh and PW-11 Smt. Sunita saw him and the
prosecutrix living together as husband and wife. He
explained     that he   was having love      affair with the
prosecutrix. He wanted to marry her but the prosecutrix
was a married woman. She did not obtain divorce from her
husband. He was waiting for divorce between her and her
husband. He started co-habiting with her. The prosecutrix
used to demand share in his his property. He asked her to

SC No.83/13               State vs. Naseem          Page 6 of 27
 take divorce from her husband and marry him. She did not
take divorce from her husband but continued her physical
relations with him. In the meantime, his marriage was
solemnized with other girl. The prosecutrix was annoyed
and she reported the matter against him.
8.              In support of his defence, the accused examined
Smt. Shahjahan as DW-1 and Sh. Riyazuddin as DW-2. The
accused examined himself as DW-3 after taking the
permission under Section 315 of the Code.
9.              I have heard arguments addressed by Ld.
Additional Public Prosecutor for the State and Ld. Defence
Counsel for accused and perused file.
10.             In   order   to    prove      its   case   that    accused
committed an offence of causing hurt by means of poisons
etc., punishable u/s 328 IPC, prosecution has to prove
firstly       that   accused      administered       either   poison        or
stupefying, intoxicating or unwholesome drug in the cold
drink of the prosecutrix; secondly, that cold drink was
offered to the prosecutrix with the intention to commit or
to facilitate the commission of an offence or knowingly it to
be likely that they will thereby cause hurt to the
prosecutrix; and thirdly, that after consuming the cold

SC No.83/13                    State vs. Naseem                   Page 7 of 27
 drink the hurt was caused to her.
11.           In order to prove its case against the accused
for the offence of rape punishable u/s 376 IPC, prosecution
has to prove firstly, that sexual intercourse was committed
with the prosecutrix; secondly, that sexual intercourse was
committed with her either forcibly against her will and
without her consent or on getting her consent by
misrepresentation or deception on the allurement to marry
her.
12.           In order to prove its case for the offence of
criminal      intimidation,     punishable         u/s   506     IPC,    the
prosecution has to prove firstly, that accused gave threat
to the prosecutrix and secondly, the threat was to cause
death or grievous hurt, etc.


13.           In order to prove its case for the offence of
criminal      conspiracy,     punishable         u/s   120   B   IPC,    the
prosecution has to prove firstly, that accused and his
brothers Nasir and Nadeem hatched a criminal conspiracy
against the prosecutrix and secondly, that the accused and
his brothers, with the object to cause hurt, commit rape
and criminally intimidate the prosecutrix committed said
offences on her.
 14.             It has been argued on behalf of the Ld. Defence
Counsel that prosecution has failed to prove its case
against the accused beyond reasonable suspicion and
shadow of doubt. The factors which create suspicion and
shadow of doubt          in the prosecution case are (i) that
alleged friend of the prosecutrix namely Geeta was not
examined, (ii) Nasir and Nadeem were not arrested by the
police, (iii) the testimonies of prosecution witnesses, PW-5,
PW-7 and PW-11 are not trustworthy, (iv) the witnesses of
the prosecution who were not examined by the prosecution
were examined by the accused as DW-1 and DW-2 to
support the defence of the accused, (iv) the physical
relationship with the prosecutrix by the accused whenever
made,         these   were   made      with     the   consent     of    the
prosecutrix and she consented as she was also in love with
the accused and (v) the prosecutrix even visited the
accused in Jail.
15.             On the other hand, Ld. Public Prosecutor argued
that non examination of Geeta and non arrest of accused
Nadeem and Nasir are not fatal to the prosecution. The
accused Nadeem and Nasir may be arrested in future and
supplementary charge -sheet may be filed against them.
PW-5, PW-7 and PW-11 fully supported the prosecution

SC No.83/13                  State vs. Naseem                   Page 9 of 27
 case, though, PW-5 and PW-11 were declared hostile. The
non-examination of DW-1 and DW-2 by the prosecution and
examination of them by the accused will not provide any
benefit to the accused keeping in view the nature of their
testimonies.     Ld.    Additional     Public   prosecutor      further
submitted that prosecution case even stands established
by the admissions of material evidence by the accused.
16.           Let us examine the prosecution evidence to find
out whether the accused Naseem committed the above
mentioned offences?
17.           PW-5, the prosecutrix deposed that the accused
present in the Court, correctly identified, used to visit the
house of her friend Ms. Geeta who used to reside near her
house. Accused         is electrician by profession and he was
running a shop near Nathu Colony, Kabir Nagar, Delhi. She
did not remember the date but there was problem in
electricity supply in her house and she called the accused
for repairing the electricity fault. In the month of May,
2009, the accused told her to attend the birthday party of
his younger brother and further told that Geeta would also
attend that party. She reached near red light Seelam Pur
and called on the mobile number of the accused. Nadeem,
the brother of the accused came to receive her at that

SC No.83/13                 State vs. Naseem                 Page 10 of 27
 point. He had taken her to his house. Nadeem gave her
one pepsi of black colour. She drank little pepsi. Nadeem
and Nasir, another brother of the accused told her to finish
the pepsi quickly as she had to help them in finishing other
work. She enquired about the accused as he was not there.
Both of them told her that he would be coming very soon
and asked her to finish cold drink. She drank the cold drink
given to her. After consuming the cold drink she started
feeling giddiness and darkness was felt around her eyes
and she did not know what happened thereafter. After
keeping mum for some time she started weeping and
thereafter, she again deposed that her clothes were taken
off and at that time Nadeem, Nasir and accused Naseem
were present. She could not tell as to who had taken off
her clothes. Subsequently, Nadeem told her that whatever
happened with her was done by accused Naseem. He
asked her not to tell these facts to anyone including police
as Naseem would marry her. Nadeem threatened her that
she would not get any benefit by telling to anyone
otherwise he would make her life miserable. Thereafter,
accused Naseem started to live with her. He used to come
in day time and did not stay in the night time. She asked
the accused to marry her. Accused told her that he would
marry her and in that regard he would talk to his parents.
He kept delaying the matter. In the meantime, she

SC No.83/13             State vs. Naseem           Page 11 of 27
 conceived and accused told her to abort the child in womb
but she refused. Thereafter, accused gave her beatings
mercilessly and after pressing her throat hit on the womb
to kill the fetus and threatened that he would kill her and
child in the womb. She made hue and cry and the accused
ran away by saying either you abort the child otherwise he
would kill her and her child in the womb and he would
defame her. Thereafter, he stopped coming to her house.
She used to call accused over his telephone from her
mobile No. 8527932110 but she did not remember                     his
number. She called him at her house but he said that he
would not come to her house and told her that he was not
the father of that child. Thereafter, she stopped calling the
accused Naseem and changed her number. She did not
remember the date, month and time but in the year 2012
accused came to her house all of a sudden and told her
that if she gave birth to a male child then he would take
her to his house as he was already father of a female child.
He also informed her that he had already married around
three year back. As the accused did not come to her
house, she filed the present case. As she did not support
the prosecution case fully, she was declared hostile and
cross-examined    by   Ld.    Public       Prosecutor.   In   cross-
examination she admitted that she made complaint Ex.
PW-5/A before Ld. ACMM, North-East. She further admitted

SC No.83/13             State vs. Naseem                  Page 12 of 27
 that on 25.03.2009 there was problem in electric supply in
her house and she had called the accused for its repair and
thereafter the accused established visiting terms in her
house. She denied the suggestion that she was raped by
all the accused persons. She stated that sexual act was
committed with her only by accused Naseem. She also
admitted that on 21.08.2011 she was medically examined
and her statement under Section 164 of the Code was
recorded by Ld. M.M on 12.09.2011 and she delivered a
male baby and her blood as well as blood of her male baby
was taken for DNA test. In cross-examination by Ld.
Defence Counsel, she stated that she was unable to tell the
date or month of her first meeting with accused Naseem
but she had met him at the house of her friend Geeta in
the year 2009. She could not tell the date on which she
was called to attend the birthday party arranged by the
accused. She stated that she had          consulted a lawyer
before preparation of complaint. She denied the suggestion
that no rape was committed by the accused with her or
she filed present case to extort money from the accused.
In further cross-examination she admitted that she was
married with Prahlad and she was living separately from
him for the last 7/8 years. She was not earning anything.
She visited the accused in jail on 31.07.2012 along with
Shabnam vide visiting slip Ex. PW-5/DX. She denied the

SC No.83/13            State vs. Naseem             Page 13 of 27
 suggestion that the accused never refused to marry her.
She stated that she did know whether divorce petition filed
by Prahlad against her was dismissed vide order dated
27.07.2012, Ex. PW-5/DZ.
18.    PW-7 Smt. Kamlesh deposed that she had been
residing in the house No. 1871 Tulsi Niketan, Bhopra,
Ghaziabad for about 5 years on rent prior to 8/9 months
from the date of recording of her evidence on 04.02.2013.
She had shifted from the above said premises in the month
of Holi last year. The prosecutrix was residing at a distance
of about one house from her house and the accused
present in the Court, correctly identified, used to visit at
her house. The prosecutrix and the accused Naseem used
to live as husband and wife in that house.
19.           PW-11 deposed that she was residing at house
No. 1871 Tulsi Niketan, Bhopra, Ghaziabad, U.P. prior to 1
½ year ago. She knew the accused Naseem present in the
Court, correctly identified, who used to visit at the house of
---x---- and they used to reside there as husband and wife.
Criminal Conspiracy and Causing Hurt by Poisonous
Substance

20.           On perusal of file, scrutinizing and evaluating


SC No.83/13               State vs. Naseem          Page 14 of 27
 the evidence on record and considering arguments, I come
to the conclusion that prosecution has failed to prove its
case against the accused beyond any reasonable suspicion
and shadow of doubt that the accused either committed
criminal conspiracy with his brothers Nasir and Nadeem or
by hatching a criminal conspiracy with his brothers he got
the cold drink mixed with sedative or intoxicated or
poisonous substance and made the prosecutrix to drink the
same. The reasons which support my decision are firstly
that the prosecutrix failed to support the prosecution case
on this aspect. Though, she deposed that Nadeem gave
her one pepsi of black colour and after drinking it she
started feel giddiness and darkness around her eyes yet in
the cross-examination her statement on this aspect is not
clear. She deposed that her clothes were taken off and at
that time Nadeem, Nasir and Naseem, the accused were
present. She    could not tell as to who had taken off her
clothes. Subsequently, Nadeem told her that whatever
happened with her it was done by accused Naseem and
that she should not tell all these things to anyone including
police as Naseem would marry her. Nadeem further
threatened her that she would not get any benefit by
telling to anyone otherwise he would make her life
miserable.    Thus, in her statement the prosecutrix could
not assign any role to the accused Naseem on the aspect

SC No.83/13             State vs. Naseem           Page 15 of 27
 of criminal conspiracy or causing of hurt by poisonous
means in pursuance of criminal conspiracy. However, she
stated that only accused Naseem committed sexual
intercourse with her. She was declared hostile and cross-
examined by Ld. Additional Public Prosecutor. In cross-
examination, she admitted that she had signed complaint
Ex. PW-5/A. She denied the suggestion that when she was
under some intoxication, all the three accused Naseem,
Nasir and Nadeem made physical relations with her
without her permission and consent. She denied the
suggestion that all said three persons committed rape on
her with their common intention and by hatching a criminal
conspiracy.      She   reiterated      that     only   Naseem          had
committed rape on her. Thus, the prosecutrix could not
support the prosecution case in respect of hatching of
criminal      conspiracy   by   above         named    three    persons
including the accused or that the accused was involved in
causing hurt by poisonous or intoxicated substance which
was allegedly given to the prosecutrix.
21.           Secondly, the evidence of the prosecutrix and
contents of her complaint are contrary on this aspect. It
has been mentioned in the complaint that all the accused
persons committed rape on her after drinking the cold
drink given by the accused Nadeem but in her statement

SC No.83/13                State vs. Naseem                    Page 16 of 27
 she     specifically   stated    that     only   accused    Naseem
committed rape on her.
22.           Lastly, in a case reported as Vijayan Vs State of
Kerala, 1999 (3) SCC 54, it was held by the Apex Court that
to bring home the charge of conspiracy within the ambit of
Section 120-B, it is necessary to establish that there was
an agreement between the parties for doing an unlawful
act. In case of John Pandian Vs State, JT 2010 (12) SC 284,
it was held by the Apex Court that circumstances in a case,
when taken together on their face value, should indicate
meeting of minds between the conspirators for the
intending object for committing an illegal act or an act
which is not illegal committed by legal means. It has to be
shown that all means adopted and illegal acts done were in
furtherance of common object of conspiracy hatched.
Turning to the case in hand the evidence on record could
not establish beyond reasonable suspicion and shadow of
doubt that accused Naseem hatched a criminal conspiracy
with his brothers Naseer and Nadim and caused hurt to the
prosecutrix by administering poisonous and sedatives
substance in the cold drink.
Commission of Offence of Rape and Criminal Intimidation

23.           On perusal of file, scrutinizing and evaluating

SC No.83/13                State vs. Naseem                Page 17 of 27
 the evidence on record and considering arguments, I come
to the conclusion that prosecution has successfully proved
its case against the accused beyond any reasonable
suspicion and shadow of doubt so far as commission of
offence of rape and criminal intimidation are concerned.
The reasons which support my decision are firstly, that
statement of prosecutrix is reliable and trustworthy in this
regard. There is no material contradiction in her statement
for discarding her testimony completely. I do not find any
such material contradiction which may create reasonable
suspicion and shadow of doubt in the prosecution case on
these aspects.
24.            Secondly, some of the material evidence of the
prosecution had been admitted by the accused in his
statement recorded under Section 313 of the Code. As
mentioned above, the accused in his statement admitted
that he had been staying with the prosecutrix and he
assured the prosecutrix that he would marry her after
talking       with   his   parents.      He      was   having    physical
relationship with the prosecutrix. PW-7 and PW-11 saw him
and the prosecutrix living together as husband and wife.
He was arrested by the police and Doctor PW-6 medically
examined        him    and   found       that    he    was   capable      of
performing sexual intercourse. He was having love affairs

SC No.83/13                   State vs. Naseem                  Page 18 of 27
 with the prosecutrix. These portions of the evidence which
the accused had admitted in his statement may be taken
into consideration as per Clause (4) of Section 313 of the
Code which run as under:
The above mentioned answers to a large extent proved
case of the prosecution particularly, the prosecution
evidence coupled with the answers given by the accused
have proved that the accused was capable to perform
sexual intercourse. He performed sexual intercourse with
the prosecutrix repeatedly on the pretext to marry with her
while staying with the prosecutrix at her residence.
25.           Thirdly, the arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel
that whenever physical relations with the prosecutrix were
made, these were made with her consent, are not
convincing for the reason that in her statement including
cross examination, the prosecutrix stated that physical
relationship were made with the assurance of marrying
her. Thus, her consent was not free and voluntarily it was
subjected to a condition that the accused would perform


SC No.83/13               State vs. Naseem           Page 19 of 27
 marriage with her. Admittedly, accused refused to marry
her on the ground that the prosecutrix was demanding
share in his property and secondly, she failed to obtain
divorce       from   her    first   husband.      The    evidence      has
established that there was litigation regarding grant of the
divorce       between      prosecutrix      and    her   husband.      The
accused did not wait up to the time of grant of divorce and
solemnized marriage with other girl fully knowing that he
had been in live-in relationship with the prosecutrix and he
had been repeatedly making physical relationship with the
prosecutrix and that made her conceive a child in her
womb and at that point of time the accused left her.
26.            Fourthly, the testimony of the prosecutrix has
been supported by other witnesses. Not only the police
witness and Doctors supported her testimony but also two
public witnesses PW-7 and PW-11 supported her testimony
and     the    prosecution      case.     The     relevant   portion     of
testimonies of PW-7 and PW-11 have already been
discussed herein above. PW-1 is a witness who proved
arrest memo and personal search memo of accused as Ex.
PW-1/A and Ex. PW-1/B. He also deposed that accused was
taken to GTB hospital by him for the purpose of his medical
examination. PW-2 proved copy of FIR of the present case
as Ex. PW-2/A, besides proving endorsement on ruqqa as

SC No.83/13                   State vs. Naseem                 Page 20 of 27
 Ex. PW-2/B. PW-3 proved the relevant entries made in the
register maintained in malkhana of Police Station as Ex.
PW-3/A, Ex. PW-3/B and Ex. PW-3/C. PW-4 is the witness
who stated that he had taken sealed pullinda from police
Malkhana on 02.12.2011 and deposited the same to FSL
Rohini on the same day. PW-6 proved MLC of accused as
Ex. PW-6/A and deposed that he found the accused
capable to perform sexual intercourse. PW-8 is another
Doctor who proved casualty slip Ex. PW-8/A of the
prosecutrix. PW-9 proved MLC of the prosecutrix as PW-9/A
and emergency card as Ex. PW-9/B. She observed that the
prosecutrix was 7 ½ months pregnant at the time of her
examination. PW-10 is IO who deposed in which manner
she conducted the investigation. She further proved the
prosecution case and corroborated the testimony of
prosecutrix as well as proved various documents which
have already been referred to here in above.
27.           Fifthly, the testimony of DW-1 and DW-2 will not
provide any benefit to the        accused. DW-1 deposed that
she knew Naseem, who used to visit her house for repair of
electricity. She knew relative of Naseem. Naseem never
brought any lady in the name of ----x------ to his house. As
discussed above, the prosecutrix deposed that when she
arrived at the house of accused in Seelampur, nobody else

SC No.83/13               State vs. Naseem           Page 21 of 27
 except the accused and his two brothers were present. In
these circumstances, there was no occasion for DW-1 to
see the prosecutrix in the house of accused Naseem.
Similarly, the testimony of DW-2 wherein he deposed that
he did not know Naseem and any relative of Naseem and
he never saw the prosecutrix and he did not know the
prosecutrix, will not create any reasonable suspicion and
shadow of doubt in the truthfulness of the prosecution
case. DW-2 even stated in his                    cross-examination that
Shahjahan DW-1, was her neighborer and he did not know
if she used to hand over the keys of her house E-19/16 and
Ex. E-9/26 to Naseem. It is relevant to mention here that a
rape on the prosecutrix was firstly committed in house No.
E-9/26 as per the testimony of the prosecutrix. This house
has been shown in the site plan Ex. PW-10/A.
28.           Sixthly, although, the accused examined himself
as    DW-3    and      deposed      that     he    developed    physical
relationship with the prosecutrix with her consent and he
married with another girl of his community with consent of
the prosecutrix but this fact was never put to the
prosecutrix. Besides, this is not a ground for having sexual
intercourse     with    the    prosecutrix        on   the   promise     of
marriage and subsequently, leaving her without any
solution. Thus, the testimony of the accused will not be

SC No.83/13                   State vs. Naseem                 Page 22 of 27
 able to save him in the present case particularly when the
prosecution has established its case against the accused
beyond any reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt.
29.           Seventhly, the visiting of the accused by the
prosecutrix in the jail, will not provide any benefit to the
accused as that does not exonerate the accused from the
crime he committed on the prosecutrix. In the same way
non-examination of friend of prosecutrix namely Geeta will
not provide any benefit to the accused because neither of
the offences committed by accused was committed in her
presence. In my view, she was not a necessary witness.
30.           Eightly, the prosecution evidence has achieved
the standard of proof of proving its case against the
accused, as held in a case Ashok Narang v. State, 2012 II
AD (Delhi) 481, wherein Delhi High Court has, inter alia,
held that testimony of a single witness in a criminal trial is
acceptable but the evidence must be free of any blemish
or suspicion, must impress the Court as wholly truthful,
and must appear to be natural and so convincing that the
Court has no hesitation in recording a conviction solely on
the basis of the testimony of a single witness. The offence
of rape is a heinous one which carries grave implications
for the accused if convicted. Therefore, the degree of proof

SC No.83/13               State vs. Naseem          Page 23 of 27
 had to be of a high standard and not a mere possibility of
committing the said offence.
31.           Ninethly, the part of the hostile witness can be
taken into consideration as per principles of law down in
case of Bhagwan Das v. State (NCT of Delhi), AIR 2011 SC
1863, wherein it has been observed that:
 The evidence in record and particularly discussed herein
above         has   established    that     accused     made     physical
relationship with the prosecutrix initially when she was
under the influence of intoxicant without her consent and
against her will and subsequently, he repeatedly made
physical relationship with the prosecutrix under the pretext
to marry her and that consent can not be termed as
voluntarily consent. It has also been established on record
that accused threatened to kill the prosecutrix and her
child in the womb if she failed to abort the fetus in the
womb. Therefore, It is bounden duty of this court to hold
the accused guilty and convict him.
                              CONCLUSION


34.             Consequent upon above reasons, discussion and
evidence on record and particularly discussed here in
above, it is held that the prosecution has failed to prove its
case against the accused Naseem beyond any reasonable
suspicion or shadow of doubt that he either committed
criminal conspiracy punishable under Section 120 IPC or he
committed           offence   of   causing       hurt   by     poisonous
substance, etc.
                It is further held that the prosecution has
successfully proved its case against the accused Naseem


SC No.83/13                   State vs. Naseem                  Page 26 of 27
 beyond any reasonable suspicion or shadow of doubt that
he committed offence of rape punishable under Section
376 IPC and offence of criminal intimidation punishable
under Section 376 IPC.
              Resultantly, the accused is acquitted for the
offences punishable under Section 120-B and 328 IPC and
he is held guilty and convicted for the offences punishable
under Section 376 & 506 (II) IPC.Announced in the Open Court
Dated: 30.08.2013             (DR. T.R. NAVAL)
                      Additional Sessions Judge, (SFTC)
                       Karkardooma Courts, Delhi




SC No.83/13               State vs. Naseem        Page 27 of 27
 IN THE COURT OF DR. T. R. NAVAL, ADDITIONAL SESSIONS
JUDGE, (SPECIAL FAST TRACK COURT), EAST, NORTH EAST
 & SHAHDARA DISTRICTS, KARKARDOOMA COURTS, DELHI

Unique Case I.D. No.02402R0213092012

SC NO.83/13
FIR No.350/11
PS Seelampur
U/S 376/506 (II) IPC

State              Versus       Naseem


                     ORDER ON SENTENCE

02.09.2013
Present:      Ms. Madhu Arora Addl. P.P. for the State.
              Convict/accused Naseem in J.C.
              Sh. Pankaj Bhushan, Advocate for the convict/
              accused.
              I have heard arguments on the quantum of
sentence and perused file.
2.            It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Defence
Counsel that accused/convict is a first offender; he is
young boy aged about 28 years; his father has recently
expired; he has aged mother and dependent one sister and
one brother as well as wife and a daughter and he had
been in jail since     01.10.2011. It has been prayed that
lenient view in sentence may be taken.
3.            On the other hand, it has been argued on behalf


SC No.83/13                 State vs. Naseem        Page 28 of 27
 of    Ld.     Additional   Public      Prosecutor     that   deterrent
punishment may be awarded to the accused as offences
has    been     proved     against     the      accused   beyond     any
reasonable doubt.
4.            Keeping in view the submissions and all relevant
factors and circumstances in which the accused committed
crime, it would be just, fair and appropriate if lenient view
in sentence is taken. Accordingly, convict/accused Naseem
is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for seven
years and he is further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.
15,000/- in default simple imprisonment for 18 months for
the offence punishable under section 376 IPC.
5.            Convict/accused Naseem is further sentenced to
undergo simple imprisonment for three years and he is
further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- in default
simple imprisonment for nine months for the offence
punishable under section 506 (II) IPC.
6.            Both the sentences will run concurrently.
7.            It is further ordered that if convict/accused
Naseem has undergone any period in judicial custody, that
period will be set off against the sentence as provided U/s
428 Cr. P.C. As per judicial record, the accused had been in
JC since 01.10.2011 till date.
8.            Out of the fine amount, and after expiration of
the period of appeal, a sum of Rs.15,000/- will be payable

SC No.83/13                  State vs. Naseem                Page 29 of 27
 to    the     prosecutrix   as     compensation.        Besides      this
compensation, she will also be entitled to get other
compensation, if available to her under other laws.
9.            The   convict/accused            Naseem   be   sent      to
imprisonment to serve the sentence.
10.           A copy each of judgment and order on sentence
is supplied to convict/accused Naseem free of cost.
              File be consigned to Record Room.