1.         Briefly stated facts of prosecution case are that on December
12, 2011, victim (since she is the victim of rape, her identity is withheld and
she is referred to as victim/complainant hereinafter) along with her mother

SC No. 23/12                                                       Page no. 1 of 22
                                                         State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


came to the police post JPN hospital of police station I. P. Estate and got
recorded her statement (Ex. PW5/A) to ASI Ramesh Kumar. Victim alleged
that on November 27, 2011, she was sleeping in the jhuggi of her maternal
grand-mother (Nani). It was alleged that she got up in the night to attend
the call of nature and saw that accused Birju @ Mathur Bux was standing
out side the jhuggi to whom she knew previously as accused Birju @
Mathur Bux used to visit the shop of her mother to buy bidi/cigarette etc. It
was alleged that accused had pressed her mouth and took her to his jhuggi
and threatened her, thereafter, committed rape upon her. It was further
alleged that even after committing rape upon her, accused threatened her
not to disclose the incident to her parents otherwise he would kill her. It was
alleged that victim had narrated the alleged incident to her parents but the
matter was not reported to the police to save the honour of the family. But,
now the family had decided to lodge an FIR against the accused,
accordingly, she got recorded her statement to the police.
2.         During   investigation,   vicitim   was   subjected      to   medical
examination, which confirmed the allegations of rape.            Accused was
arrested and he was also got medically examined. Exhibits were seized,
statement of victim was got recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. During
investigation, documents pertaining to the age of victim were seized and as
per the charge-sheet, victim was about 13 years 10 months old at the time
of commission of offence.
3.         After completing investigation, challan was filed against the
accused for the offence punishable under Section 363/366/376/506 IPC.
4.         After complying with the provisions of Section 207 Cr. P.C., case


SC No. 23/12                                                       Page no. 2 of 22
                                                           State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


was committed to the Court of Sessions on May 5, 2012. Thereafter, case
was assigned to this Court on May 18, 2012. Accordingly, case was
registered as Sessions case No. 23/2012.
5.         Vide order dated June 1, 2012, a charge for the offence
punishable under Section 363/376/506 IPC was framed to which accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
6.         In order to bring home the guilt of the accused, prosecution has
examined as many as following ten witnesses:-
7.         Thereafter, accused was examined under Section 313 Cr.P.C.
wherein he admitted that he knew the victim (PW5) . He also admitted his
signature on Ex. PW2/D1 but took the plea that his signature was obtained


SC No. 23/12                                                         Page no. 3 of 22
                                                        State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


by the police on blank paper and later on same was converted into Ex.
PW2/D1. Though he admitted that his medical examination was conducted
during investigation but also submitted that he was picked up from his
house and falsely implicated in this case. In his defence, he took the plea
that he had deposited ` 13,000/- with the father of victim as a security as he
used to drive his TSR and his driving license was also with her father.
When he was demanding his driving license, a quarrel had taken place
between them. Thereafter, parents of the victim had falsely implicated him
in this case. However, he preferred not to lead any evidence in his defence.
8.         Learned amicus curiae appearing for the accused vehemently
contended that no reliance can be placed on the testimony of PW5 victim
as there was inordinate delay in lodging the FIR as the alleged incident had
taken place on November 27, 2011 whereas the FIR was lodged only on
December 12, 2011.      It was further submitted that no reliance can be
placed on the sole testimony of victim as no evidence was found at the
place of occurrence to show that any such incident had committed there. It
was further contended that there is no scientific evidence on record to
prove that accused had committed rape upon the victim. It was further
contended that the victim was above 16 years at the time of alleged
incident, thus it cannot be ruled out that victim was a consenting party. It
was further contended that investigating officer failed to examine the sister
of victim without any reasonable explanation, thus there is no admissible
evidence on record to show that victim had gone to the jhuggi of her Nani to
sleep there.   It was alleged that her sister was the only witness to
corroborate this fact but prosecution failed to bring her in the witness box.
It was further submitted that police had obtained the signature of accused
on blank paper which they had converted into document Ex. DW2/D1.
9.         Per contra, learned Additional Public Prosecutor refuted the said
contentions by arguing sagaciously that there is no delay in lodging the FIR.
It was submitted that the incident had taken place on November 27, 2011
and victim had reported the matter to her parents on the very next morning
i.e. November 28, 2011 and, thereafter, victim and her parents went to the
police post JPN hospital but police did not give any heed to their complaint
and pressurised the victim and her parents to settle the matter with the
accused and forced to sign on the Compromise Deed Ex. PW2/D1. It was
submitted that victim should not be suffered due to the apathy or inaction
on the part of police officials. It was further submitted that legal action
should also be taken against the erring police officials. It was further
submitted that there are ample evidence on record to prove that the victim
had gone to the jhuggi of her Nani on that fateful night as her Nani was sick
and she came to the jhuggi of her daughter i.e. mother of the victim. It was
further submitted that the testimony of PW5 is fully corroborated by the
medical evidence to show that she was sexually assaulted. It was, thus,
contended that there is no reason to disbelieve the testimony of victim.
10.            I have heard rival submissions made by counsel for both the
parties, perused the record carefully and gave my thoughtful consideration
to their contentions. It is pertinent to state that counsel for both the parties
did not cite any case law in support of their contentions.
11.            From the submissions advanced by counsel for both the parties,
first question emerges for adjudication as to whether there was any delay
on the part of victim or her parents in lodging the FIR or not?
12.            In this regard, the testimony of PW2, PW4 and PW5 are
relevant. PW5 victim of the crime, in her deposition, categorically deposed


SC No. 23/12                                                        Page no. 5 of 22
                                                        State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


that the incident had taken place during the night of November 27, 2011
and she rushed to her jhuggi on the next morning at about 6.30 AM and
she immediately narrated the whole incident to her mother. She further
deposed that thereafter her parents took her to the police post to lodge a
complaint but police did not register the complaint on the ground that if they
would lodge an FIR, police would also have to arrest her (victim). She
further deposed that however police had called the accused Birju @ Mathur
Bux but permitted him to go and matter was got settled by the police. PW2
mother of the victim also corroborated this fact by deposing that on
November 28, 2011 in the morning, her daughter told her about the incident
and thereafter they went to the police post to lodge an FIR but police did
not give any heed to their complaint, consequently, they came back. She
further deposed that police told them that if accused would be arrested then
they would also have to take the victim in custody, thus, she became
scared. She further deposed that police officials pressurised them to settle
the matter with the accused, accordingly they had settled the matter with
the accused at the instance of police.         She also filed the alleged
compromise deed, which is exhibited as Ex. PW2/D1.
13.            PW2 further deposed that when her mother-in-law came to
know about the incident, she scolded her and asked her why she had not
lodged an FIR and why accused was permitted to go unpunished. She
further deposed that when she told her mother-in-law that police had
pressurized her, her mother-in-law told why she did not call her at that time
and, thereafter, PW2 along with her mother-in-law and other family
members went to the office of DCP at Darya Ganj. Thereafter, police had
recorded the FIR. PW2 further deposed that police had terrorised her that if
the FIR was lodged, her daughter would be sent to jail for seven years.
PW5 corroborated the testimony of PW2 by deposing that when her parents


SC No. 23/12                                                      Page no. 6 of 22
                                                        State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


told the incident to her grand parents, they became angry and then they
went to the office of DCP at Darya Ganj. Therafter, DCP directed the police
to register an FIR.
14.            From the deposition of PW2 and PW5, it becomes crystal clear
that PW5 had narrated the incident to her parents on the very next morning
i.e. November 28, 2011 and thereafter they went to the police post to lodge
an FIR but police refused to lodge the FIR. Rather police pressurised the
victim and her family to settle the matter with the accused and got prepared
a settlement Deed Ex. PW2/D1. Perusal of the said compromise deed
reveals that it bears the signature of as many as eight persons including the
accused and it also bears the seal of PP JPN hospital of police station I. P.
Estate. This shows that the said document was prepared in the PP of JPN
hospital. If police refused to register the case, it cannot be said that there
was any delay on the part of victim or her family members. Victim cannot
be permitted to suffer due to the inaction and apathy shown by the police
officials. Thus, I am of the opinion that in the present matter, there is no
delay on the part of victim and her family members in loding the FIR.
15.            Next question emerges from the submissions of counsel for the
parties as to whether there is any scientific/medical evidence to prove the
testimony of PW5 or not?
16.            PW5 was medically examined by PW6 Dr. Vandana Solanki who
categorically deposed that she had examined the victim on December 12,
2011 vide MLC report Ex. PW6/A and on examination she found scratch
marks on the left arm and left leg of the victim and her hymen was found
torn. Thus, the medical examination of victim corroborated the version of
PW5 that she was sexually assaulted.         No doubt, the victim had not


SC No. 23/12                                                      Page no. 7 of 22
                                                         State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


disclosed the name of accused before PW6 and stated that she was
sexually assaulted by someone. On the basis of said lapse, learned
defence counsel contended that accused was not the person who sexually
assaulted the victim, but to my mind, the said submission is without any
substance. There is nothing on record which may suggest that PW6 had
particularly asked the name of culprit and despite the asking of the name of
culprit, victim failed to disclose the name of accused. At the time of
appreciating the evidence, Court cannot ignore the fact that victim was a
girl of tender age, thus it would not be proper to draw an inference that she
was capable to know the consequences of not disclosing the name of
accused before the doctor. Moreover, from the deposition of PW5, it has
been established that she knew the accused very well prior to the incident
and there is no reason why she would implicate the accused falsely after
permitting the real culprit go unpunished. To my mind, the abovesaid lapse
is not fatal to the prosecution in any manner.
17.            No doubt, semen could not be detected on the micro-slides of
the victim, which were taken in the JPN hospital during medical
examination. But in the instant case, the absence of semens on the micro-
slides is not fatal to the prosecution case in any manner because the
incident had taken place on November 27, 2011 whereas she was
medically exmained only on December 12, 2011.              If the slides were
prepared after such a long period, it is highly improbable that traces of
semens would be found on the slides.
18.            Next question arises as to whether non-examination of sister of
victim is fatal to the prosecution case in any manner or not?
19.            PW5 in her deposition categorically deposed that on November


SC No. 23/12                                                       Page no. 8 of 22
                                                          State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


27, 2011, she along with her sister went to the jhuggi of her Nani to sleep
there as their Nani was sick and she had come to their house to sleep. She
further deposed that in the night she got up to attend the call of nature and
thereafter accused took her to his jhuggi and committed rape upon her.
Thereafter, she rushed to her jhuggi on the morning at about 6/6.30 AM
when accused slept and narrated the incident to her parents. Thus, it
becomes clear that when the alleged incident had taken place, her sister
was not with her. Sofar the factum as to whether victim had gone to the
jhuggi of her Nani to sleep there or not is concerned, this fact is proved by
PW2 and PW4. PW4 is the Nani of PW5 and she categorically deposed
that PW5 and her sister came to her jhuggi to sleep whereas she went to
the jhuggi of PW3 to sleep there as she was sick. Thus, non-examination
of sister of victim is not fatal to the prosecution case in any manner.
20.            Learned counsel appearing for the accused also contended that
the age of victim was above 16 years at the time of incident and no reliance
can be placed on the school certificate of the victim as it is not clear on
what basis the age of victim was got recorded in the school certificate as
January 19, 1998.
21.            In order to prove the age of victim, prosecution has relied upon
the school record. PW8 categorically deposed that victim was got admitted
in the school on April 6, 2010 in sixth standard and at that time, her parents
had disclosed her age as January 19, 1998.             He also produced the
admission register and copy of the same is Ex. PW8/A, which corroborates
the deposition of PW8. In the school leaving certificate Ex. PW2/B, her age
is mentioned as January 19, 1998. It is pertinent to state that the age of a
child can be determined in terms of Rule 12 of Juvenile Justice (Care &
Protection of Children) Rules, 2007. As per the said rule, no ossification test


SC No. 23/12                                                        Page no. 9 of 22
                                                                State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


is required if the child has a school certificate (other than a play school
certificate). In the instant case, prosecution has relied upon the record of
middle school of the victim to prove the age, thus, there is no reason to
disbelieve the same. Moreover, PW2, mother of the victim categorically
deposed that victim was 13 years old at the time of incident and victim also
deposed so. There is no contrary evidence on record. In the absence of
any contrary evidence on record, I do not find any force in the contention of
learned defence counsel that victim was above 16 years at the time of
incident.
22          Now question arises as to whether conviction can be recorded
on the sole deposition of victim?           In this regard, the observations of
Supreme Court made in various cases are relevant.
23.            In Madho Ram v. State of U.P., AIR 1973 SC 469 it was held
that:
                       "Prosecutrix   cannot    be    considered     to   be    an
                       accomplice. As a rule of prudence, however, it has
                       been emphasized that Courts should normally look for
                       some corroboration of her testimony in order to satisfy
                       itself that the prosecutrix is telling the truth and that a
                       person, accused of abduction or rape, has not been
                       falsely implicated. The view that, as a matter of law,
                       no conviction without corroboration was possible has
                       not been accepted. The only rule of law is the rule of
                       prudence namely the advisability of corroboration
                       should be present in the mind of the Judge or the Jury,
                       as the case may be. There is no rule of practice that
                       there must in every case, be corroboration before a
                       conviction can be allowed to stand. As to what type of


SC No. 23/12                                                              Page no. 10 of 22
                                                               State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


                      corroboration may be required when the court is of the
                      opinion that it is not safe to dispense with that
                      requirement, it has also been laid down that the type
                      of corroboration required must necessarily vary with
                      the circumstances of each case and also according to
                      the particular circumstances of the offence with which
                      a person is charged."
                                                      (emphasis supplied)
24.            In State of Himachal Pardesh v. Asha Ram, AIR 2006 SC
381, Apex Court held that:
25.             In Aman Kumar v. State of Haryana, reported in AIR 2004


SC No. 23/12                                                            Page no. 11 of 22
                                                                State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


SC 1497, Apex Court held:
29.            PW5 in her testimony categorically deposed that when she got
up in the night of November 27, 2011 to attend the call of nature, she saw
that accused Birju was standing outside the jhuggi. Accused pressed her
mouth and took her to his jhuggi which was located near the jhuggi of her
Nani. She further deposed that after reaching there, accused had removed
her clothes and thereafter committed rape upon her. She further deposed
that she had given a kick blow to the accused but could not get rid herself
from the clutches of accused. She further deposed that when accused
committed rape upon her, bleeding started from her private parts. She
further deposed that accused had also threatened her not to disclose the
incident to anyone otherwise he would kill her. She further deposed that
when accused had slept, she ran to her jhuggi and narrated the incident to
her parents. In her cross-examination, she deposed that she could not raise
alarm because accused had pressed her mouth. She further deposed that
she did not raise alarm during the whole night nor raised the alarm in the
morning. By putting these questions, learned defence counsel tried to show
that the victim was a consenting party in the sexual inter-course. But the

SC No. 23/12                                                          Page no. 14 of 22
                                                        State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


same is not helpful to the accused in any manner because consent is not
material in the present matter as victim was below 16 years of age. The
testimony of PW5 is corroborated by the medical evidence on substantial
points such as her hymen was found torn and scratches were found on her
left arm and left leg. There is no evidence contrary to the testimony of PW5.
In these circumstances, I do not find any reason to disbelieve the testimony
of PW5. In my opinion, the testimony of PW5 is trustworthy.
30.            Since, PW5 deposed that accused had pressed her mouth
when he took her to his jhuggi, this establishes that accused had taken the
victim to his jhuggi against her consent and willingness, thus it amounts
kidnapping as defined under Section 361 IPC.
31.            At last, learned defence counsel contended that accused has
been falsely implicated in this case because accused had deposited
` 13,000/- with the father of the victim as a security as he used to drive his
TSR. The driving license of accused was also with the father of victim and
when accused demanded his driving license, a quarrel had taken place
between accused and her father and due to that reason, parents of the
victim had falsely implicated the accused in the instant case.           Though
during the cross-examination of PW1, a suggestion was put to him that
accused had given a loan of ` 13,000/-, yet the same was categorically
denied. Rather he deposed that PW1 had given a sum of ` 6,600/- to the
accused. Though in his statement recorded under Section 313 Cr.P.C,
accused took the plea that the quarrel had taken place on the point of
driving license whereas during the cross-examination of PW1, suggestion
was given that the dispute had arisen on the demand of ` 13,000/-.
Similarly, in his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C, he took the plea that
he had deposited ` 13,000/- as security whereas during the cross-
examination of PW1 accused took the plea that he had given a loan of
` 13,000/-. During the trial, accused failed to lead any evidence to establish
that he had either deposited ` 13,000/- as a security with PW1 or he had
given a loan of ` 13,000/- to PW1. In the absence of any evidence on
record, I am of the view that defence version does not inspire any
confidence.
32.            Pondering over the ongoing discussion, I am of the considered
opinion that prosecution has succeeded to prove the guilt of accused
beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts, thus, I hereby hold the
accused Birju @ Mathur Bux guilty for the offence punishable under Section
376/363/506 IPC.
33.            Before parting with the matter, it is pertinent to state that the
role of police officials of police post JPN hospital is quite shocking and
vexing. From the testimony of PW2 and PW5, it is limpid that when they
approached the police to lodge an FIR, police officials did not give any heed
to their complaint. Rather they pressurized the victim and her family
members to settle the matter with the accused and obtained their signature
forcibly on the compromise deed Ex. PW2/D1 . Such type of irresponsible
behaviour from the members of the law enforcing agency is intolerable.
PW2 in her cross-examination categorically deposed that one police official
named Ramesh Kumar had pressurized her to settle the matter with the
accused but she failed to depose his rank.          Such unscrupulous police
officials are not only required to be identified but stern action is also
required against such erring police officials. Needless to say that act of
such unscrupulous police officials gives a bad name to the entire system.
34.            Needless to say that under Section 154 Cr.P.C., police is under


SC No. 23/12                                                        Page no. 16 of 22
                                                          State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


obligation to lodge an FIR if the information relates to the commission of a
cognizable offence and in-charge of police station is further under obligation
to supply the copy of FIR to the informant free of cost. In the instant case,
police had not only violated the legal rights of the victim and her family by
not lodging the FIR but also violated the human rights of the victim by not
showing due repect to the victim. It is pertinent to state that a victim of rape
not only suffers physical injury but also suffers psychological and emotional
trauma. Such victims are required to be dealt with in a cordial atmosphere
but instead of helping the victim and her family, police had multiplied their
trauma many foldes by not lodging the FIR of the incident. Thus, to my
mind, victim deserves compensation from the police for the inaction and
apathy shown by the police officials of         police post of JPN hospital.
35.            Now, question arises as to whether police can be directed to
pay compensation, if it refuses to lodge an FIR without any basis. In case
Radha vs. State (2011) 179 DLT 810, Hon`ble High Court of Delhi had
directed the Delhi police to pay a compensation of ` 2 lac in the form of cost
for not lodging an FIR in a murder case. Since, in the instant case, police
had violated the legal and human rights of the victim by not lodging an FIR
and pressurizing her to settle the matter with the accused, Delhi Police is
directed to pay a cost of ` 25,000/- to the victim. However, Commissioner of
Police shall have a right to recover the said amount from the salary of erring
police official who failed to act on the complaint of victim. Delhi Police is
directed to deposit the amount of ` 25,000/- in the Court within six weeks
from the date of judgment.
36.            Copy of judgment be sent to Commissioner of Police for
identifying the erring police officials and taking appropriate action under


SC No. 23/12                                                       Page no. 17 of 22
                                                     State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


intimation to this Court and to deposit the amount of compensation in the
Court


Announced in the open Court
On this 21st day of January 2013
                                           [PAWAN KUMAR JAIN]
                                           ASJ-01/CENTRAL/DELHI




SC No. 23/12                                                  Page no. 18 of 22
                                                   State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux




        IN THE COURT OF SH. PAWAN KUMAR JAIN
       ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE-01(CENTRAL):DELHI


SC No. 23 of 2012
ID No: 02401R0220072012

                                    FIR No. : 145/2011
                                    PS      : I.P.Estate
                                    U/S     : 363/366/376/506 IPC

STATE


       VERSUS


BIRJU @ MATHUR BUX
S/o Sh. Kasim
R/o CN 225, Jhuggi Takia Kalekhan,
Mata Sundri Road,
Delhi

                                                        ........Convict


Present:       Sh. R.K. Tanwar, Additional Public Prosecutor for the
               State
               Ms. Chitramal, Advocate, Amicus Curiae for convict


ORDER ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE:
1.             Vide separate judgment dated January 21, 2013, accused


SC No. 23/12                                                Page no. 19 of 22
                                                          State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


Birju @ Mathur Bux has been held guilty for the offence punishable under
Section 376/363/506 IPC.
2.             Learned counsel appearing for the convict requests for a
lenient view on the ground that convict is a young boy of 22 years old and
he has no criminal antecedents. It is further submitted that convict is the
sole bread earner of the family and has one young sister. It is further
submitted that convict is in custody since December 13, 2011, thus
requested that he be sentenced for the period already undergone.
3.             On the converse, Additional Public Prosecutor for the State
requests for maximum sentence on the ground that convict had committed
rape on the helpless minor girl aged about 13 years 10 months.
4.             I have heard rival submissions advanced by counsel for both
the parties, perused the record carefully and gave my thoughful
consideration to their contentions.
5.             Rape is the only crime where victim becomes the accused as
the rape victim especially, if victim is child, has to face short-term and long-
tern harm, including psychopathology in later life, psychological, emotional,
physical, and social effects include depression post traumatic stress
disorder, anxiety, eating disorders, poor self-esteem, dissociative and
anxiety disorders; general psychological distress and disorders such as
somatization, neurosis, chronic pain, sexualized behaviour, school/learning
problems; and behaviour problems including substance abuse, destructive
behaviour, criminality in adulthood and suicide.
6.             Besides the above, such type of crimes create a sense of


SC No. 23/12                                                       Page no. 20 of 22
                                                          State Vs. Birju @ Mathur Bux


terror in the society, especially among the female members because after
such type of incidents, a sense of insecurity abode in them. To restore
sense of security among them, I am of the view that such offenders should
be dealt with iron hands as and when their guilt is proved. Thus, in my
opinion, it is not a fit case to impose token sentence as prayed by learned
counsel for the convict.
7.             Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and
gravity of offence, I hereby sentence the convict Birju @ Mathur Bux for a
period of eight years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of ` 10,000/- in
default further six months simple imprisonment for the offence punishable
under Section 376 IPC. I further sentence him rigorous imprisonment for
one year and a fine of ` 2,000/- in default further three months simple
imprisonment for the offence punishable under Section 363 IPC and he is
further sentenced rigorous imprisonment for one year and a fine of `
2,000/- in default further three months simple imprisonment for the offence
punishable under Section 506 IPC. All the sentences shall run concurrently.
Benefit of Section 428 of the Code of Criminal Procedure be given to
convict.
8              If the amount of fine is paid, same be deposited with the Victim
Compensation Fund.
9.             A compensation is recommended to the victim under Section
357A Cr.P.C, thus copy of order on the point of sentence along with
particulars of victim and her parents be sent to the Secretary Delhi District
Legal Service Authority, Central District for determining the quantum of
compensation. Intimation be also sent to the victim through SHO I.P. Estate
and he shall also assist the Secretary, DLSA in identifying the victim.
10.            Copy of judgment along with order on the point of sentence
be given to the convict/his counsel free of cost.
11.            File be consigned to record room.