  1. Whether Reporters of Local Papers may be YES
      allowed to see the judgment ?
  2. To be referred to the Reporter or not ?                            YES
  3. Whether their Lordships wish to see the fair                       YES
      copy of the judgment ?
  4. Whether         this   case   involves         a   substantial      NO
      question of law as to the interpretation of the
      constitution of India, 1950 or any order made
    thereunder ?
=========================================
                     NIKO RESOURCES LIMITED....Petitioner
                                  Versus
                      UNION OF INDIA & 1....Respondents
=========================================
Appearance :
Special Civil Application No.13134 of 2009
MR S N SOPARKAR, SENIOR COUNSEL ASSISTED BY MR TANVISH BHATT
FOR M/S WADIA GHANDY & CO, ADVOCATE for the Petitioner.
MR SHAKEEL A QURESHI, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT STANDING COUNSEL for
the Respondent No.1.
MR MIHIR JOSHI, SENIOR COUNSEL ASSISTED BY MR NITIN K MEHTA,
ADVOCATE for the Respondent No.2.
Special Civil Application No.10903 of 2009
MR S N SOPARKAR, SENIOR COUNSEL ASSISTED BY MRS. SWATI SOPARKAR
AND MR. BANDISH S. SOPARKAR, ADVOCATES for the Petitioner.
MR SHAKEEL A QURESHI, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT STANDING COUNSEL for
the Respondent No.1.
MR MIHIR JOSHI, SENIOR COUNSEL ASSISTED BY MR SUDHIR MEHTA,
ADVOCATE for the Respondent No.2.
=========================================



                                    Page 1 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                       CAV JUDGMENT



CORAM: HONOURABLE THE ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE
       MR. VIJAY MANOHAR SAHAI
       and
       HONOURABLE MR.JUSTICE R.P.DHOLARIA

                       Date : 26/03/2015
                   COMMON CAV JUDGMENT
         (PER : HONOURABLE THE ACTING CHIEF JUSTICE
                  MR. VIJAY MANOHAR SAHAI)


1.            The Petitioner is a foreign company based in Canada

and has set up a project office in India with the permission of

Reserve Bank of India. The Petitioner is subject to income tax in

India in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax laws in

India. The Petitioner is engaged in exploration, development and

production of mineral oil and natural gas. The Petitioner has been

awarded the right to explore, develop and produce mineral oil in

various blocks. For this purpose, the Petitioner has entered into

what is known as "Production Sharing Contract" (for short the PSC)

with the Government of India for exploration, development and

production of "mineral oil". The PSC specifies the area over which

the Petitioner has been given such rights. PSC defines the Contract

Area as a Block. One such PSC was entered into on 23 rd September,

1994    and     another   on   17th   July,      2001   for   the   exploration,

development and production of mineral oil in the Hazira and Surat

block respectively. The Petitioner has been producing crude oil and

natural gas from such Blocks.

2.            The Petitioner has been claiming benefit of deduction of

100% of the profits and gains from the production of mineral oil


                                 Page 2 of 139
      C/SCA/13134/2009                                       CAV JUDGMENT



and natural gas under Section 80-IB(9) as it stood prior to an

amendment to Section 80-IB(9) of the Income Tax Act, 1961

(hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') which was introduced by the

Finance (No.2) Act 2009. In these proceedings the constitutional

validity of the amendment to sub-Section (9) of Section 80-IB and

Explanation added to it under the Act by the Finance (No.2) Act,

2009, has been challenged.

3.          The relevant portion of the amendment in the present

proceedings read as under:-
4.             We are concerned with the amendments which have

been highlighted above. The relevant amendments in question are

in two parts.

5.             The first part is the insertion of the Explanation to

Section 80-IB(9) with retrospective effect from the 1st day of April,

2000. This Explanation seeks to define the meaning of the term

"undertaking". This Section provides for deduction, from the gross

total income of any assesses, 100% of the profits and gains of an

undertaking engaged in commercial production of "mineral oil".

This deduction is available to the assessees for a period of seven

consecutive assessment years, including the initial assessment year

in which an undertaking commences commercial production,

provided the undertaking has commenced commercial production

of mineral oil on or after 1st April 1997.

6.             The second part of the amendment is the introduction

of a new sub clause (iv) to Section 80-IB(9) by which the benefits of

the deduction under 80-IB(9) have been conferred to persons

engaged in commercial production of ''natural gas" In blocks

licensed under the VIIIth Round of bidding under the New

Exploration        and     Licensing      Policy       (NELP)   and   who        begin

commercial production of natural gas on or after 1st day of April

2009.     This     amendment      is      effective     from    1.4.2010   i.e.    for



                                       Page 5 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                CAV JUDGMENT



Assessment Year 2010-11 onwards.

7.           We shall now deal with the first part of the amendment

namely, insertion of the Explanation to Section 80-IB(9) of the Act

by Section 37 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2009.

8.           The benefits given in terms of Section 80-IB to persons

like the Petitioner were originally covered by Section 80-IA and

later on became part of Section 80-IB. A short legislative history of

the benefits as were available from time to time as is relevant for

the present proceedings is given in the following paragraphs.



9.           Section 80-IA as it stood with effect from 1.4.1999

under which the tax benefits were available is reproduced below:-


10.           By an amendment in Finance Act, 2001, when the

benefit to commercial producers of mineral oil was shifted from

Section 80-IA to Section 80-IB and the said Section 80-IB with

effect from 1.4.2002, till its amendment by Finance Act, 2008 reads

as under :-

11.          Section 80-IB (9) was amended by Finance Act 2008 but

that amendment is not relevant for present proceedings.



12.          The Section was further amended by Finance (No.2)

Act, 2009 with effect from 1.4.2000, and as amended, the said

Section reads as under :-

13.          Paragraph 102 of the Budget speech of the Finance

(No.2) Bill, 2009 reads as under :-

14.          The Memorandum to the Finance (No.2) Bill, 2009, by

which the above amendments were introduced reads as under :-

15.          Notes on clauses to the Finance (No.2) Bill, 2009

provide as under :-

16.          Explanation added to Section 80-IB(9) by the Finance

(No.2) Act, 2009 (reproduced above) with retrospective effect from

1.4.2000, reads as under :-

17.          At this stage, it would be useful to briefly set out the

history of the Government's policy and the tax holidays in regard to

production of mineral oil in the country.

                                        Page 11 of 139
 C/SCA/13134/2009                                        CAV JUDGMENT
        (i)        Prior to 1999, the Government had a policy

        with       respect     to   exploration,   development    and

        production of mineral oil in the country, when

        private participation was permitted for the first

        time under the extant policy.

        (ii)       It was under this policy that the Petitioner

        entered into its first PSC on 23rd September 1994

        with the Government of India and the benefit of

        deductions        to        an   undertaking   engaged         in

        commercial production of mineral oil in any part of

        India on or after the 1st day of April 1997 was first

        introduced by Finance Act 1998 in Section 80-IA of

        the Act.

        (iii)      The Government, in order to attract private

        investments in the mineral oil sector, formulated

        the New Exploration and Licensing Policy (NELP)

        which came to be notified in the official gazette on

        10th February, 1999. Among other things, the NELP

        stated that a seven year tax holiday from the date of

        commencement of commercial production would be

        available to the contractors under NELP. The NELP

        also stated that a separate Petroleum Tax Guide

        would be in place to facilitate the investors.



                                Page 12 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                     CAV JUDGMENT
18.          This Petroleum Tax Guide is a compilation of the laws

relating to Income Tax, Custom Duties, Central Excise and other

laws, as applicable to activities connected with prospecting for or

extraction and production of petroleum in the upstream sector

under PSC entered into on or after 1st January 1999. The tax guide

also provides that in event of inconsistency between this guide and

any enactment or rules, the relevant Act or the Rule shall apply.

Paragraph 5 of the guide deals with the Income Tax provisions in

relation to PSC participants. Sub paragraph 5 (11) reads as under:-



19.           The word "undertaking" has not been defined in either

Section 80-IA or Section 80-IB of the Act and the principles and

attributes of what constitutes an "undertaking", for the purposes of

these Sections have been laid down in a series of judgments of the

Apex Court and other High Courts of the country starting from

Textile     Machinery     Corporation       Limited,   Calcutta   v.    the

Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal Calcutta (1997) 2 SCC

368.



20.           The Petitioner has treated each well/cluster of wells as

an "undertaking" for the purpose of claiming deductions under

Section 80-IB(9) of the Act.       In the Hazira block, the Petitioner

commenced commercial production of mineral oil in some of the

wells before 1.4.1997, but in some of the well/cluster of wells, the

commercial production commenced after 1.4.1997.             On the basis

that a well/ cluster of wells is an 'undertaking', the Petitioner has

claimed the benefits of deduction of the profits and gains from such

'undertakings' which commenced production after 1.4.1997 under

Section 80-IB(9). This claim was disallowed by the Assessing

Officer for Assessment Year 2001-02 relating to the Hazira block on

the ground that since commercial production from the Hazira block

(even though from a different well) commenced before 1.4.1997, it




                                Page 14 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                    CAV JUDGMENT



did not satisfy the requirement of Section 80-IB(9). According to

the Assessing Officer it is the date of first commercial production

from the block, as a whole, was to be considered to determine the

entitlement of the benefit under this Section. On appeal by the

Petitioner, the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred

to as 'ITAT'), by its order dated 29 th February 2008, held that each

well/cluster of wells constituted a separate undertaking and

therefore the Petitioner was entitled to a deduction under Section

80-IB(9) in respect of profits derived from each such well/cluster of

wells    for     a   period   of   seven     consecutive   years   from    the

commencement of the commercial production, in each such

undertaking, consisting of a well/cluster of wells. The ITAT

thereafter allowed similar claims for the Assessment Years 2000-

01, 2002-03 and 2003-04. The Respondent has gone in appeal

against the orders of ITAT before this Court, which is pending.



21.            Consequent upon the introduction of the Explanation to

Section 80-IB(9) by the Finance (No.2) Act, 2009, defining the term

"undertaking" to mean "all blocks licensed under single contract"

with retrospective effect from 1.4.2000, by an Order dated 7th

September 2009, the claim of the Petitioner for the Assessment

Year 2006-07 under Section 80-IB(9) was disallowed by the

Assessing Officer.

22.            The Petitioner challenges the constitutional validity of



                                   Page 15 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                          CAV JUDGMENT



the retrospective amendment to Section 80-IB(9) on the ground of

it being arbitrary and unreasonable and thus ultra vires Article 14

of the Constitution of India as well as on other grounds.



23.           We have heard Mr. S.N. Soparkar, learned Senior

Counsel assisted by Mr. Tanvish Bhatt, learned counsel appearing

for M/s. Wadia Ghandy and Company for the Petitioner in Special

Civil Application No.13134 of 2009 with learned counsel Mrs. Swati

Soparkar and Mr. Bandish S. Soparkar appearing for Petitioner in

Special Civil Application No.10903 of 2009, Mr. Mihir Joshi,

learned Senior Counsel assisted by Mr. Nitin K. Mehta appearing

for the respondent No.2 in Special Civil Application No.13134 of

2009 with Mr. Sudhir M. Mehta, learned counsel appearing for

respondent No.2 in Special Civil Application No.10903 of 2009 and

Mr. Shakeel A. Qureshi, learned Central Government Standing

Counsel appearing for respondent No.1 in both the writ petitions.



24.           Though we have heard both the petitions together, but

for   convenience,         we   have      treated     Special   Civil    Application

No.13134 of 2009 to be the leading writ petition.



25.           Mr. S. N. Soparkar, learned Senior Counsel for the

Petitioner has contended that this amendment is not merely

clarificatory      in     nature,   but     is   a    substantive       retrospective

amendment and inasmuchas it takes away vested rights, it is



                                     Page 16 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT



arbitrary and unreasonable and is liable to be struck down as being

ultra vires to Article 14.


25.1          The other contentions of the learned Senior Counsel for

the Petitioner are set forth below.


25.2          According to learned Senior Counsel, the background

facts for introduction of the New Exploration Licensing Policy

(NELP) was that the ownership of natural resources embedded in

the sea bed and ground vests in the State and the policy for

exploitation of the said resources was also formulated by the

Central Government. In order that the private sector companies are

attracted to participate in the exploration, development and

production of hydrocarbons, the NELP was notified by the Central

Government and it provided certain assurances to the prospective

participants. Under the NELP, the Central Government invited

offers for exploration of mineral oil for every block and commenced

the process of entering into a PSC with the successful bidders who

is nomenclature as the contractor under the PSC.



25.3          The learned Senior Counsel drew the attention of the

Court to the Notice Inviting Offers under the NELP, where under

the heading "Main Features of the Terms Offered", It was stated

that "Income Tax Holiday for 7 years from the start of commercial

production" will be available and further that "to facilitate



                               Page 17 of 139
      C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT



investors, a Petroleum Tax Guide (PTG) is in place". A gas basin

comprises of a huge area and each basin may comprise of a number

of blocks with delineated areas. Each block may have one or more

gas or oil fields where hydrocarbons had been discovered. Every

field may have one or more wells, depending on the extent of the

mineral oil reserve driven by technical requirements. Once a

discovery is announced and declared to be a "commercial

discovery", an elaborate process has been laid down in the PSC not

only for approving it as a commercial discovery, but right down to

the number of wells which the contractor was to drill. For this

purpose a separate development plan for development of each field

is prepared by the contractor and is approved by a body known as

the Management Committee in which the Government has the veto

power. He submitted that each of such wells/cluster of wells is a

separate and independent undertaking. Moreover, the notice

inviting offers and the PSC envisage an exploration period,

followed by development and production period. The exploration

period is a maximum of 7 years. He further submitted that while

the notice inviting offers envisaged production in a phased manner,

it is a contradiction to state that the period of 7 years exemption

for the entire block, should commence from the time when the first

well started commercial production. The learned Senior Counsel

further contented that exploration, development and production,

are phase-wise for every block and it would not be right to state

that the period of seven years for the entire block would commence



                            Page 18 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                        CAV JUDGMENT



from the date of commercial production in the very first well, when

the other areas of the block were still under exploration or

development phase as stipulated in the PSC. The term undertaking,

therefore, cannot be construed to mean the entire block to reckon

the period of seven years of the tax holiday.


25.4          According to the learned Senior Counsel various

clauses of Petroleum Tax Guide define "Commercial Production" to

mean production           of petroleum      from   a field     in commercial

quantities. Provisions of Act which have been set forth in the Tax

Guide and in particular in view of the statement under Section

80-IA of the Act, PSC             participants     who begin Commercial

Production of Petroleum in any part of India on or after 1st April,

1997 shall be entitled to claim deduction of 100% of their profits

and gains derived from such businesses for initial seven years

commencing from the first year of Commercial Production, the

phrase "commercial production" has to be read and understood in

the context of the field in respect of which development plan had

been approved and not the entire block.


25.5          Reading      of   various    clauses   in    the    PSC     clearly

demonstrate that the term "undertaking" was never construed to

mean the entire block area. Each well/clusters of wells depending

upon    the     Development      Plan,    approval    is   a     separate     and

independent undertaking and commercial production from each



                                  Page 19 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                        CAV JUDGMENT



such undertaking is under supervision and scrutiny of the Central

Government. In this context, the definitions of "Commercial

Production", "Contract Area", "Development Area" were stressed to

point out that while the Contract Area means the area of the entire

Block, the Development Area is a part of the "Contract Area" which

may   encompass          one   or   more      commercial     discoveries.    The

Development Area in a Block can be more than one and each

Development Area may be independent and each such area may be

identified and developed in phased manner. The definition of the

term "Commercial Production" read with the definition of the same

word in the Petroleum Tax Guide clearly shows that Commercial

Production has to be read in the context of a Field which can be a

Development Area. The definition of the term "Development

Operations" and "Development Plan" were stressed to point out

that there is a separate plan approved by the Management

Committee for development of a Commercial Discovery for a

Development Area or a Field. It was pointed out that there can be

more than one Development Plan for development of a Block and

every Development Area or Field which may consist of one

well/cluster of wells is a separate and independent undertaking, as

this term has been understood both by the Contractor and the

Government.       Several      other    definitions   such    as   "Discovery",

"Discovery Area", "Exploration Operations", "Exploration Period",

"Exploration Phase", "Field", "Production Cost", "Well" were

referred to emphasize this point.

                                    Page 20 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT




25.6          It was further contended that it has been stipulated in

the PSC, that the Central Government would closely scrutinize and

approve every stage of exploration, development and production of

mineral oil. It was pointed out that the Central Government is not

only in majority in the Managing Committee under PSC but also

has a veto power. The learned counsel pointed out the fact that in

the course of development of the Block and in some cases of the

field, Development Plans consisting of either a single well/cluster of

wells had been approved. Thus, the Central Government has always

been aware that there are more than one undertaking in each

Block, has acted on this premise in approving more than one

Commercial Discovery in each Development Area of a Block and

cannot now introduce by retrospective amendment, the concept

that an entire Block would be a single undertaking, and that such

an amendment is liable to be struck down as unreasonable and

arbitrary.


25.7          The learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioner cited

various authorities which are for the purposes of the benefits of the

Act defining the term "undertaking'" which, go to show that a

Development Area or a Field within a Block with a well/cluster of

wells can be considered as a separate undertaking.



25.8          In Textile Machinery Corporation Limited, Calcutta v.



                               Page 21 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                            CAV JUDGMENT



Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal, Calcutta (1977) 2 SCC

368, the Apex Court has laid down the principles of what

constitutes an "undertaking". Manufacture of production of articles

yielding additional profits attributable to new outlay of capital is a

separate      and     distinct       unit.   The     fact   that   an   assessee,   by

establishment of a new industrial undertaking, expands his existing

business which he certainly does, would not on that score deprive

him of the benefits under Section 15C of the Act. The true test is

not whether the new industrial undertaking connotes expansion of

the existing business of assessee but whether it is all the same a

new and identifiable undertaking separate and distinct from the

existing business. An undertaking is formed out of the existing

business if the physical identity of the old unit is preserved. The

new activity may produce the same commodities of the old business

or it may produce some other distinct marketable commodities.



25.9           The Gujarat High Court in Gujarat Alkalies and

Chemicals Ltd v. Commissioner of Income Tax 350 ITR 94 (Guj)

held that a new unit, even if it derived help from an existing unit

and is dependent on the existing undertaking, will not deprive the

new undertaking the status of a separate and distinct identity.



25.10          The         learned    Senior     Counsel      contended     that    the

introduction of the Explanation in Section 80-IB(9) by Finance

(No.2) Act, 2009 with retrospective effect from 1.4.2000 is a



                                        Page 22 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                  CAV JUDGMENT



substantive amendment which takes away a vested right of the

Petitioner. It is arbitrary, unreasonable and ultra vires to Article 14

of the Constitution of India and is liable to be struck down. He

further contended that the Explanation has been introduced solely

to supersede various judgments of the tribunals/courts which have

rightly interpreted and held that a well/cluster of wells is an

"undertaking". He contended that the amendment, retrospectively,

deprives persons similarly placed as the Petitioners of their

legitimate vested rights. An amendment such as this can never be

considered clarificatory but is in the nature of an unreasonable

substantive retrospective amendment and is liable to be struck

down. The Counsel relied upon the following judgments to canvas

the contentions raised by him in this regard, According to the

learned counsel :-

25.11          It was further contended that although included by the

amendment as an explanation, the real purport of the amendment

was not to explain any provision but to retrospectively amend the

statute in a manner so as to take away the rights vested in the

Petitioner and subject the Petitioner to financial liabilities which

did not exist at the relevant time retrospectively in an arbitrary and

unreasonable manner by an amendment which was of a substantive

nature.

                                  Page 25 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                       CAV JUDGMENT



25.12          It was further contended by the learned Senior counsel

that the benefits of deductions under Section 80-IA were expressly

made available with effect from 1.4.1999 by amending the then

existing Section 80-IA. Later on Section 80-IB(9) was introduced to

provide for such benefits. At all times the benefit had been

available to an "undertaking". Neither Section 80-IA, Section 80-IB

nor the provisions of PSC provided that the "undertaking" would be

construed       as     a   whole   Block.     The    meaning    of   the      word

"undertaking" was always clear as laid down by catena of

judgments including that of the Apex Court. Thus, the Government

as well as the Petitioner clearly understood the meaning of the

term "undertaking" as essentially an independent economic unit

and it was a vested right conferred by the statute. Thus, the law

was unambiguous as to the meaning of the word "undertaking". The

amendment is not clarificatory but substantive, which takes away

vested rights retrospectively putting additional financial burden on

the Petitioner which was not permissible.


25.13          The learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioner fairly

conceded that principles of promissory estoppels, equity and

Article 19(l)(g) are not applicable to facts of the case of the

Petitioner but in a given case in which provisions of Article 19 can

be properly invoked, this would be applicable.



26.            On the other hand, Mr. Mihir Joshi, learned Senior



                                    Page 26 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT



Counsel for the Respondent No.2 contended that any legislation

cannot be struck down on the basis of Article 14 alone. In this case,

there is no vested right whatsoever in the Petitioner and even if the

Petitioner had a vested right, it can be taken away by the

legislature and the test before the Court can only be whether it is

reasonable or not.


26.1          The other contentions of the learned Senior Counsel for

the Respondent are set forth below :-


26.2          The Petitioner's contention that assurances have been

provided by the Government in the NELP and the Petroleum Tax

Guide would be of no assistance to the Petitioner as this do not vest

any rights in the Petitioner. The NELP has stated that a tax holiday

will be available for a period of seven years from the date of

commencement of commercial production. The NELP does not

make reference to commercial production from a well or cluster of

wells while referring to the tax holiday. The NELP also states the

Tax Guide is only to facilitate the investors and states that in case

of any inconsistency between the Tax Guide and the provisions of

any legislation, the provisions of the relevant Act would prevail.

Clause 3 of the NELP states that a Block will be carved out for

offering. The Contract Area as defined in the PSC means the entire

area of the block and not one or a cluster of wells. The definition of

Commercial Production in the PSC is production of crude oil,



                               Page 27 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                           CAV JUDGMENT



condensate or natural gas from the Contract Area. The term "Field"

is defined to mean an oil or gas field or a combination of both as

the case may be. Therefore, the term "Commercial Production"

relates to a field and the Contract Area and not wells. The PSC also

states that the companies shall be eligible for benefit under Section

80-IA of the Act, as applicable from time to time. This clearly

indicates that the law can be changed at any time and the

deductions as per the law as may be amended from time to time

only would be available to the Petitioner. Further, Clause 17.10 of

the PSC provides that if, due to any change in law dealing with

Income Tax or any other tax, which results in a material change to

the expected economic benefits accruing to any of the parties after

the date of execution of the Contract, the parties shall promptly

consult in good faith to make necessary revisions and adjustments

to the Contract in order to maintain the expected economic benefit

to such affected parties. There, however, has never been any

vested right, as is being claimed by the Petitioner. These are no

rights vested by a statute. At the best, these can be considered to

be contractual rights under a Contract with the Government which

can be taken away, modified or withdrawn. Even assuming that

such rights are vested in the Petitioner, these rights have not been

available and/or have not arisen as yet. The Respondents have not

admitted     these       rights   at    any      time   during   the   assessment

proceedings. A vested right can only accrue by an action of any

authority in a positive manner or a right acquired by a final



                                       Page 28 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT



adjudication by a competent court. The only vested right in this

case is the benefit conferred by the Section for seven years which

has not been taken away.


26.3          The Explanation, according to the learned Senior

Counsel, has been inserted by the legislature to resolve a dispute

regarding interpretation of a provision of law. An explanation such

as this cannot be considered to be unreasonable or ultra vires. The

Explanation has not modified any charging provision but is a part

of the chapter dealing with deductions from profits and gains and

was not susceptible to any challenge. The retrospective amendment

provides an Explanation which is clarificatory in nature and does

not relate to a levy or make a substantive amendment and

therefore, there was no question of it being unreasonable.



26.4          The contention of the Petitioner that the Central

Government always controlled the exploration, development and

production is not correct. The PSC provided discretion to the

Petitioner to deal with discoveries, development and working of the

Development Area. Under the PSC, the fact that the Petitioner has

the right to retain areas rich in mineral oil after the exploration is

over is a pointer to the fact that the total area retained by the

contractor is an "undertaking" and each well or cluster of wells do

not constitute an "undertaking". The learned Senior Counsel

contended that the position of the Petitioner with regard to



                              Page 29 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                                CAV JUDGMENT



"undertaking" is not unambiguous since, interchangeably a well

and sometimes a cluster of wells has been treated as an

undertaking to suit its convenience. The learned Senior Counsel

stated that the judgments relied upon by the Petitioner for the

meaning of "undertaking" were in relation to industries which were

producing goods and these cannot be equated to the facts and

circumstances in cases of mineral oil exploration, development and

production.


26.5          The learned Senior Counsel for the Respondent has

contended that provisions of Article 19(l)(g) are not available to the

Petitioner as no citizen of India is a party to the petition.



26.6          The learned Senior Counsel further contended that

Article 14 deals only with discrimination and provides for equality

before the law. The contentions of the Petitioner with regard to

unreasonableness cannot be sustained under Article 14.
27.           The learned Senior Counsel for the Respondent further

contended as follows:-

27.1          It was contended that the amendment is not a

colourable exercise of power since the tribunal's judgments are not

statutes and the Respondent has preferred appeals in the High

Court and the amendment is in the nature of a clarification to a

pending dispute.


27.2          He further contended that assuming that the parties

agreed to treat each well as an "undertaking'' and the amendment

was contrary to the terms of a contract, such as this, even then it

would not invalidate the amendment. A contractual vested right

cannot be the reason to strike down an amendment to law.



28.           On the second issue involved in the petition is whether

the term "mineral oil" includes "natural gas", the contention of Mr.

S. N. Soparkar, learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioner is that

this amendment has the effect of erroneously considering that the


                                 Page 34 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                  CAV JUDGMENT



term "mineral oil" does not include natural gas prior to this

amendment. This amendment is unreasonable and in any event not

in consonance with industry norms and technical realities. The

terms "oil and gas" are always used in conjunction. The income Tax

Department has interpreted the insertion of sub clause (iv) to

Section 80-IB(9) in this manner and has denied the benefit to the

Petitioner on this count. If this is the interpretation, this

amendment artificially restricts the tax benefit under Section

80-IB(9) of the Act only to commercial production of natural gas in

the NELP VIIIth round of bidding as opposed to the position settled

by the tribunal in the Petitioner's own case which clarifies that

mineral oil as understood always included natural gas. This also

creates an anomalous position creating two classes of assessees for

the purpose of availing deduction under Section 80-IB(9) i.e., one

who is engaged in commercial production of natural gas in Blocks

licensed under the VIIIth Round of bidding and begins commercial

production of natural gas on or after 1st day of April, 2009 and

another who has commenced the commercial production of natural

gas in blocks licensed under pre NELP VIII rounds of bidding.

Therefore, this amendment is arbitrary and unreasonable and liable

to be struck down as being ultra vires to Article 14.
29.          Mr. Mihir Joshi, learned Senior Counsel appearing for

the Respondent No.2, has forcefully submitted that it has been the

consistent position of the Revenue that mineral oil does not include



                              Page 35 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                      CAV JUDGMENT



natural gas. He further contended that whenever legislature

desired so, it had used the terms mineral oil and natural gas

distinct from each other in different provisions in the Act.



30.          Learned Central Government Standing counsel for

Respondent No.1 Mr. Shakeel A. Qureshi has urged that the

impugned amendment made in the Act retrospectively is a valid

piece of legislation and does not suffer from any infirmity nor it

violates any constitutional provision.              The amendment made by

Finance (No.2) Act 2009 is liable to be upheld. He further relied on

the case laws and arguments of Mr. Mihir Joshi, learned Senior

Counsel and has adopted it as part of his argument.



31.          We have examined the rival contentions and according

to us the following issues fall for consideration in this matter:-



Whether the term "mineral oil" would include Gas ?


32.             We propose to deal with the second issue first.


33.             Before we go into the issue of constitutional validity

and vires of the amendments by insertion of sub-clause (iv) to

Section 80-IB(9) to the Act, it will be profitable to understand the



                                      Page 37 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT



meaning and import of the expression "mineral oil". The term

"mineral oil" has not been defined under the Act. The Respondent

seeks to rely on Explanation to Section 42 which, for the purpose of

that Section, explains "mineral oil" as including both, petroleum

and natural gas, The Explanation qualifies the applicability only to

Section 42 of the Act. It is therefore contended that 'mineral oil"

under 80-IB should be so construed so as not to include natural gas

and the explanation under Section 42 cannot be looked at in

construing the provisions of Section 80-IB.

34.             This contention would merit consideration if mineral

oil has either been defined under the Act or has acquired a natural,

commercial or interpretative meaning so as to exclude natural gas.

Section 80-IB(9)(ii) of the Act provides for the same exemption to

undertakings located in any part of India which began commercial

production of mineral oil on or after 1st April 1997. Apart from use

of the term "undertaking", this provision also uses the term

"mineral oil". It is necessary to consider the scope and amplitude

of these terms in the context of the provisions of Sections 80-IB

particularly in view of the fact that while amending the provisions

of this Section in the manner aforesaid, Section 80IB(9)(ii) has

remained unamended.

35.             The question whether natural gas is encompassed in

the term "mineral oil" came up for consideration before a



                               Page 38 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT



Constitutional Bench of the Apex Court in the case of Association

of Natural Gas and others v. Union of India and others,

(2004) 4 SCC 489. The question arose as to the legislative

competence of the State to enact laws on natural gas in terms of

Entry 25 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.

Union of India contended that the exclusive domain power and

competence to legislate on natural gas is available only to the

Parliament by virtue of Entry 53 List I of the Seventh Schedule.



35.1              Entry 53 of List I of the Seventh Schedule reads as

under:-

35.4          The Apex Court framed the following question in

paragraph 19 of the decision :-

35.5          The relevant portions of this decision is reproduced
below:-

               "20.           In     Kirk-Othomer           Encyclopedia         of
               Chemical Technology, (Third Edition), Vol, 11 page
               630,       'Natural   gas'   is    defined    as   a    naturally
               occurring       mixture      of   hydro-carbon         and   non-
               hydrocarbon gases found in the porous geologic
               formations beneath the earth's surface, often in
               association with petroleum.

               22.            Natural gas is found in areas of the
               earth that are covered with sedimentary rocks.
               These sediments were first laid down during the
               Cambrian period, ca 500 million years ago, and this
               process continued until the end of the Tertiary
               period ca 100 million years ago. These sediments
               contain the organic source materials from which
               natural gas and petroleum were produced. Gas and


                                     Page 40 of 139
 C/SCA/13134/2009                                              CAV JUDGMENT



        petroleum, being less dense than the water present
        in the rocks, tended to migrate upward until
        contained under impervious rock barriers.

        23.               On page 634 of the above Encyclopedia,
        Natural gas is classified in several broad categories
        based on the chemical composition, which are; (1)
        wet gas contains condensable hydrocarbons such as
        propane, butane, and pentane; (2) lean gas denotes
        an absence of condensable hydrocarbons; (3) dry
        gas is a gas whose water content has been reduced
        by dehydration process; (4) sour gas contains
        hydrogen sulfide and other sulfur compounds; and
        (5) sweet gas denotes an absence of hydrogen
        sulfide and other sulfur compounds. Natural gas
        sold to the public is described as lean, dry and
        sweet.

        27.               In Volume 17 on page 119, it is stated
        that the term 'petroleum', literally, rock oil, is
        applied to the deposits of oily material found in the
        upper strata of the earth's crust. Petroleum was
        formed by a complex and incompletely understood
        series of chemical reactions from organic material
        laid       down    in   previous         geological   eras.   Large
        deposits have Lean found in widely different parts
        of the world and their chemical composition varies
        greatly. Consequently, no single composition of
        petroleum can be defined. It is not surprising that
        the composition varies, since the local distribution
        of plant, animal and marine life is quite varied and,
        presumably,          was     similarly       varied    when     the
        petroleum precursors were formed.

                                Page 41 of 139
 C/SCA/13134/2009                                     CAV JUDGMENT
        28.        As per 'The New Book of Popular
        Science' Vol. 2, petroleum is an oily, inflammable,
        liquid made up mostly of hydrocarbons - compounds
        containing only hydrogen and carbon. The hydrogen
        content of petroleum ranges from 50 per cent to 98
        per cent. The rest is made up chiefly of organic
        compounds containing oxygen, nitrogen, or sulphur.


        29.        According to a widely held theory, the
        remains of countless small marine animals and
        plants dropped to the ocean bottom and were
        covered over by mud. Many layers of mud and plant
        and animal remains accumulated in the course of
        time. These sediments were subjected to great
        pressure and heat, and were often squeezed and
        distorted as the earth's crust moved. Gradually they
        were converted into layers of sedimentary rock. The
        plant and animal remains contained within them
        were transformed into petroleum and natural gas.
        The details of this transformation are not quite
        clear.

        30.        Gas    and      oil     are   found   in   huge
        subterranean caverns. They both occur in minute
        pores of such rocks as sandstone and limestone.
        They are held captive under great pressure by
        surrounding rock formations that are impervious to
        seepage. Finally they are released when the shifting
        of the earth's surface cracks the cap rock."

        "31.       'Natural gas' has been defined in the
        Webster's new 20th Century dictionary, unabridged



                          Page 42 of 139
 C/SCA/13134/2009                                                CAV JUDGMENT



        second edition, as follows :

        "Natural Gas: A mixture of gaseous hydrocarbons,
        chiefly methane, occurring naturally in the earth in
        certain place, from which it is piped to cities etc, to
        be used as a fuel." (p-756).

        32.              In Ballantine's Law Dictionary, 3rd Edn.
        1969, 'Natural Gas' has been defined as "A mineral
        in the form of a vapor." "A gas characterized by
        hydrocarbons in mixture, occurring naturally in the
        crust of the earth, obtained by drilling, and piped to
        cities     and    villages,   industrial          and   commercial
        centers, for use in heating, illumination and other
        purposes."

        "35.             All the materials produced before us
        would only show that the natural gas is a petroleum
        product. It is also important to note that in various
        legislations covering the field of petroleum and
        petroleum products, either the word 'petroleum1 or
        'petroleum        products'    has       been      defined     in   an
        inclusive way, so as to include natural gas. In
        Encyclopaedia Britannica, 15th Edn. Vol. 19, page
        589 (1990), it is stated that "liquid and gaseous
        hydrocarbons are so intimately associated in nature
        that it has become customary to shorten the
        expression        'petroleum           and    natural       gas'       to
        'petroleum'       when    referring          to   both."The      word
        petroleum literally means 'rock oil'. It originated
        from the Latin term petra-oleum. (petra-means rock
        or stone and oleum-means oil). Thus, Natural Gas
        could      very    well   be comprehended               within      the



                              Page 43 of 139
 C/SCA/13134/2009                                             CAV JUDGMENT



        expression 'petroleum' or "petroleum product."


        "37.             A survey of the various legislations on
        the topic would show that the term 'petroleum' or
        'petroleum        products'      has     been   given     a   wide
        meaning to include natural gas and other similar
        products.

        38.              In the Pipelines Act, 1962 of the United
        Kingdom, 'petroleum' has been defined as follows :-


        "Petroleum includes any mineral oil or relative
        hydrocarbon and natural gas existing in its natural
        condition in strata, whether or not it has undergone
        any processing; but does not include coal or
        bituminous shales or other stratified deposits from
        which      ail    can     be     extracted      by    destructive
        distillation."

        39.              Petroleum has been variously defined in
        different Acts, noted herein below :-
        "Petroleum (Production) Act 1934 (UK) "Petroleum
        includes any mineral oil or relative hydro-carbon
        and natural gas existing in its natural condition in
        strata, but does not include coal or bituminous
        shales or other shales or other stratified deposits
        from which oil can be extracted by destructive
        distillation.

Petroleum Act, 2000 (Sec.4), Australia "Petroleum"
        means a naturally occurring substance consisting of
        a hydrocarbon or mixture of hydrocarbons in



                                Page 44 of 139
 C/SCA/13134/2009                                                    CAV JUDGMENT



        gaseous, liquid or solid state but does not include
        coal or shale unless occurring in circumstances in
        which the use of techniques for coal seam methane
        production        or       in    situ       gasification     would           be
        appropriate."

        mixture of hydrocarbons, whether in a gaseous,
        liquid or solid state; or


        (b)        any   naturally          occurring          mixture         of     a
        hydrocarbon           or     hydrocarbons             and   of    another
        substance        or    other       substances,         whether         in     a
        gaseous, liquid or solid state."

        40.              The various legislations passed by the
        Indian Parliament and the relevant rules also would
        show that 'natural gas' was treated as mineral oil
        resource or petroleum product.

        1.          The Oil Fields (Regulation & Development)
        Act, 1948.

        3(c)       "Mineral        Oils"    include       natural        gas        and
        petroleum.

        2.         Mines Act, 1952 2 (jj) "minerals" means all
        substances which can be obtained from the earth by
        mining, digging, drilling, dredging, hydraulicking,
        quarrying or by any other operation and includes



                                   Page 45 of 139
 C/SCA/13134/2009                                                CAV JUDGMENT



        mineral oils (which in turn include natural gas and
        petroleum)."

        3.         The Mines and Minerals (Development and
        Regulation) Act, 1957,


        3.(b)      "minerals oils" includes natural gas and
        petroleum."

        4. Petroleum and Natural Gas Rules, 1959,


        3.   (k)    "Petroleum"        means           naturally    occurring
        hydrocarbons in a free state, whether in the form of
        natural gas or in a liquid viscous or solid form, but
        does not include helium occurring in association
        with petroleum, or coal, or shale, or any substance
        which may be extracted from coal, shale, or other
        rock by the application of heat or by a chemical
        process."

        3. (n) "petroleum product" means any commodity
        made from petroleum or natural gas and shall
        include      refined      crude         oil,     processed     crude
        petroleum,      residuum          from          crude      petroleum,
        cracking stock, uncracked fuel oil, fuel oil, treated
        crude oil residuum, casing head gasoline, natural
        gas gasoline, naphtha, distillate, gasoline, kerosene,
        waste oil, blended gasoline, lubricating oil, blends
        or mixture of oil with one or more liquid products or
        by-products derived from oil condensate, gas or
        petroleum        hydrocarbons,                  whether        herein
        enumerated or not."

                               Page 46 of 139
 C/SCA/13134/2009                                                   CAV JUDGMENT
        5.     The        Petroleum          and     Minerals           Pipelines
        (Acquisition of Right of User in Land) Act, 1962,


        2. (c) "petroleum" has the same meaning as in the
        Petroleum Act, 1934, and includes natural gas and
        refinery gas."

        6. The Oil Industry (Development) Act, 1974


        2.         (h). "mineral oil" includes petroleum and
        natural gas."

        2. (m). "petroleum product" means any commodity
        made from petroleum or natural gas and includes
        refined      crude      oil,    processed       crude       petroleum,
        residuum from crude petroleum, cracking stock,
        uncracked fuel oil, fuel oil, treated crude oil
        residuum,         casing       head       gasoline,    natural      gas,
        gasoline, naphtha, distillate gasoline, kerosene,
        bitumen,         asphalt       and    tar,   waste     oil,      blended
        gasoline, lubricating oil, blends or mixture of oil
        with one or more liquid products or by products
        derived from oil or gas and blends or mixtures of
        two or more liquid products or byproducts derived
        from       oil    condensate          and     gas     or     petroleum
        hydrocarbons not specified herein before."

        "42.       ........Thus, the legislative history and the
        definition of 'petroleum', 'petroleum products' and
        'mineral         oil   resources'         contained        In    various
        legislations and books and the national interest
        involved in the equitable distribution of natural gas
        amongst the States - all these factors lead to the



                                 Page 47 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                          CAV JUDGMENT



               inescapable conclusion that "natural gas" in raw
               and liquefied form is petroleum product and part of
               mineral oil resource, which needs to be regulated
               by the Union."

35.6          The Constitutional Bench, after considering "natural

gas is a mineral in the form of vapor"; "a gas characterized by

hydrocarbon in mixtures"; "Natural gas is found in areas of earth

covered by sedimentary rocks. Gas and petroleum being less dense

than water present in the rocks tends to migrate upwards"; and

"Liquid and gaseous hydrocarbon are so intimately associated in

nature that it has become customary to shorten the expression

petroleum and natural gas to petroleum when referring to both",

concluded as follows :-

35.7          The Apex Court in unequivocal terms has held that,

"natural gas in raw and liquefied form is a petroleum product and

part of mineral oil resources." In light of the above judgment, and

in absence of any specific definition of mineral oil under Section

80-IB of the Act, any reference to mineral oil in its natural,

commercial and technical sense will include petroleum products

and natural gas. The decision rendered by the Apex Court in

Association of Natural Gas case would squarely apply. In the

absence of the definition under Section 80-IB of the Act, if reliance

has to be placed on allied enactments passed by Parliament, this

would also lead to a clear conclusion that mineral oil includes

natural gas.


35.8          It is therefore clear, that the expression "mineral oil"

would include and encompass within itself, both, petroleum

products and natural gas. When one deals with the provisions of

the PSC or any taxing statute, without doubt mineral oil is the

genus and contains within its ambit petroleum products and

natural gas as its species. The term natural gas may not be

sufficient to include petroleum product or mineral oil. On the

contrary the expression "mineral oil" is wide enough to encompass


                                Page 50 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                             CAV JUDGMENT



within itself petroleum products and natural gas. The contention of

the Respondent that petroleum products and natural gas have been

made part of mineral oil only through inclusive provisions

contained in Sections 42, 44BB and 293A and its conspicuous

absence in section 80-IB has to be inferred that the purpose of

Section 80-IB, mineral oil would not include petroleum products

and natural gas. This contention of the learned counsel for the

Respondent needs to be rejected for the following reasons:-



35.9           If Explanation has to be given preference then it would

amount to reading or rewriting the decision of the Apex court that

mineral oil in its natural sense would not include natural gas. On

the contrary, para 48 of the judgment uses the expression "all these

factors lead to the inescapable conclusion" that natural gas in raw

and liquefied form is petroleum product and part of mineral oil

resources.

35.10          In fact, there is no dispute or contest on facts between

the Union and the States as to what would constitute "natural gas"

and its broad categories and chemical compositions. The Apex

Court referred to technical literature and the advancement in

science in the use of liquefied natural gas. The contention of the

State that natural gas do not fall within the genre of petroleum

products and mineral oil stood rejected by holding that natural gas

in raw and liquefied form is petroleum product and part of mineral

oil resources.


35.11          Section 80-IB of the Act has not defined mineral oil nor

has it excluded petroleum products and natural gas. It is not alien



                                       Page 52 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                             CAV JUDGMENT




to tax laws to have scripted definition to suit a particular

enactment or introduce deeming provisions. The amendments to

Section 80-IB do not define or restrict the meaning of mineral oil or

even introduce such deeming provisions. The ratio and findings of

Constitution Bench judgment apply squarely to the controversy in

this case. The judgment conclusively covers the issue and we have

no hesitation in concluding that the term "mineral oil" in the

Section 80-IB of the Act, takes within its purview both petroleum

products and natural gas.


35.12          Before parting with this issue, we need to examine one

more aspect. The Constitutional Bench resolved the conflict as to

the domain competence to legislate on natural gas by holding that

natural gas is nothing but part of mineral oil and the exclusive

competence to regulate is vested only with the Union or Parliament

and the power of the State are completely denuded. It is by virtue

of its power under Entry 53, Central Government has entered into

the Production Sharing Contract (PSC) with parties like the

Petitioner granting them rights to explore, develop and produce

mineral oil which also encompasses natural gas. The proposition

that even though the findings of the Apex Court are unequivocal,

for the purpose of Section 80-IB the term "mineral oil" would not

encompass within its purview, natural gas only has to be stated to

be rejected.


35.13          The judgment of the Apex Court holds the field. The



                               Page 53 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                            CAV JUDGMENT




ratio of this judgment remains unaffected by the subsequent

amendments to Section 80-IB(9)(ii). The insertion of sub clause (iv)

to Section 80-IB(9) does not militate against meaning attributed to

the expression "mineral oil" by the Apex Court, Entry 53 of List I

does not refer to Natural Gas separately. The Apex Court has also

read it only as part of mineral oil, but for which Parliament would

not have had the power and competence to legislate. Various

enactments such as the Oil Fields (Regulation and Development)

1948, Mines Act 1952, The Mines and Minerals (Development and

Regulation) Act 1957, Petroleum and Natural Gases Rules 1959,

The Petroleum and Minerals Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User

in Land) Act 1962 and The Oil Industry Development Act 1974 have

been passed by the Parliament. Since there was no explicit entry

"Natural Gas" in Entry 53, all the aforesaid legislations while

referring to Mineral Oil had indicated explicitly, what is otherwise

implicit that Mineral Oil includes Natural Gas. If Natural Gas is not

part of the term Mineral Oil, Parliament could not have legislated

in any manner on any issues relating to Natural Gas which position

has been made explicit.


35.14          Sub-clause (iv) to Section 80-IB(9) was introduced by

the Finance (No.2) Act 2009 with effect from 1.4.2010. Notes on

Clauses to the Finance Bill 2008 and 2009, the actual amendments

to Section 80-IB(9) made through Finance Bill 2008 and Finance

Bill 2009 along with the statements laid on the floor of the

Parliament by the Hon'ble Finance Minister while moving the



                               Page 54 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                     CAV JUDGMENT




motion for consideration of Finance Bill 2008 on this subject matter

are reproduced below :-

35.15        Statement of the Finance Minister on the floor of the

Parliament while moving the motion for the consideration of

Finance Bill 2008 :-

35.16          Budget        speech       of      the   Finance       Minister       while

introducing Finance (No.2) Bill, 2009 :-

35.17          Notes on clauses to Finance (No.2) Bill 2009:



35.18          Amendment to Section 80-IB(9) by Finance (No.2) Act,

2009 :-

35.19               These amendments are not in the nature of a

Validating Act and they have not been given retrospective effect. In

fact, the Notes on Clauses merely set out the stand of the revenue

authorities. This exercise is insufficient to construe that the term

mineral oil does not include natural gas or that the benefits of

Section 80-IB have been extended to natural gas for the first time

with effect from 1.4.2009 by virtue of insertion of sub clause (iv) to



                                       Page 62 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                      CAV JUDGMENT
Section 80-IB(9). At the best, sub clause (iv) has to be construed to

mean that the benefit would also be available for NELP VIII bidders

who satisfy the conditions set out in the said sub clause.



35.20                 In the absence of specific wordings in the Statute,

to draw a conclusion that only undertakings engaged in the

commercial production of 'mineral oil" other than "natural gas"

will be entitled to deductions of profits and gains under the above

mentioned sub-section, is wholly incorrect.



35.21                 For the aforesaid reasons, we hold that the

insertion of sub clause (iv) to Section 80-IB(9) of the Act by the

Finance (No.2) Act, 2009 cannot be interpreted to mean that the

term "mineral oil" as used in Section 80-IB does not include natural

gas and cannot result in denial of the benefit of deduction under

Section      80-IB(9)      to   undertakings        engaged   in   commercial

production of natural gas under contracts entered into prior to

VIIIth round of bidding. In view of the decision of the Constitutional

Bench of the Apex Court, the term "mineral oil" includes and has

always included "natural gas".


Whether the Petitioner has any accrued or vested right ?



36.            We may now consider the third question as to whether

the Petitioner has any accrued or vested right. One of the



                                   Page 63 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                               CAV JUDGMENT



fundamental principles of a democratic society inherent in all the

provisions of the Constitution is that any interference with the

property should be lawful. We are in the era of globalisation.

Deprivation of property may also cause serious concern in the area

of foreign investment, especially in the context of International Law

and international investment agreements. Whenever, a foreign

investor operates within the territory of a host country, the investor

and its properties are subject to the legislative control of the host

country, along with the international treaties or agreements. Even,

if the foreign investor has no fundamental right, let them know,

that the rule of law prevails in this country. The message should be

loud and clear, that rule of law exists in our country.



36.1          Income-tax Act, 1961, do not explicitly or impliedly

forbid as to how a company and the Government should enter into

agreements or contracts. In absence of contract, there is no vested

interest which requires the continuance of a legislative policy

however expressed in a system of taxation. A vested right is a legal

and enforceable right, enforceable by a legal process. We propose

to consider Article 300A of the Constitution of India which reads as

under :-


                                Page 64 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                      CAV JUDGMENT
              Two words, "person" and "property" in Article 300A are

important. We may first consider the meaning of word "person".

The expression "person" includes any entity, not necessarily a

human being, to which rights or duties may be attributed.                   In

ordinary, popular and natural sense word "person" means "a

specific individual human being". But in law the word "person" has

a slightly different connotation, and refers to any entity, which is

recognized by law as having the rights and duties of a human

being. Thus the word "person", in law, unless otherwise intended,

refers not only to a natural person (male or female human being),

but also any legal person i.e. an entity that is recognized by law as

having or capable of having rights and duties.             Ramanlal Bhailal

Patel v. State of Gujarat, (2008) 5 SCC 449. The word "person"

includes a corporation or a company as well as a natural person.

Unless there is something to the contrary, it ought to be held to

include both.


36.1          The expression "person" has been defined in Section 2

(31) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 as under:-
But Article 367 of the Constitution provides that definitions

contained in the Section 3 (42) of General Clauses Act, 1897, apply

for the interpretation of the Constitution. The definition of "person"

in the General Clauses Act, would not restrict the power of the

State Legislature to define a "person" and adopt a meaning

different from or in excess of the ordinary acceptation of the world

as is defined in the General Clauses Act.


36.2          The provision of the General Clauses Act, 1897 which is

applicable for the interpretation of the Constitution as provided for

under Article 367 (1) itself restricts the applicability of the Act and

makes such an application subject to the context as otherwise may

require. Section 3 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 itself says that

unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context the

term "person" shall include any company or association or body of

individuals, whether incorporated or not.              The legislature is not

denuded of its competency to define the term "person" differently

from the definition of that term in the General Clauses Act, 1897.

It is not uncommon practice for Parliament or the State Legislature

to define "person" in the Act and create an artificial unit by fiction.



                                      Page 66 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                        CAV JUDGMENT



The definition of "person" in Section 3 (42) of the General Clauses

Act is undoubtedly illustrative and not exhaustive. The well-known

rule of interpretation regarding such inclusive definitions has

always been to treat the other entities, which would not otherwise

have come strictly within the definition, to be a part thereof,

because      of   illustrative   enactment         of   such   definitions.   The

legislature is competent in its wisdom to define "person" separately

for the purposes of each of the enactments and different from the

one in the General Clauses Act and create an artificial unit. The

definition of "person" in the General Clauses Act would not operate

as any fetter or restriction upon the powers of the State Legislature

to define "person" and adopt a meaning different from as defined in

the General Clauses Act. Karnataka Bank Limited v. State of A.P.,

(2008) 2 SCC 254.


36.3          The maxim "reddendo singular singulis" will apply to

the interpretation of the word "person" so that the general

meaning of the word "person" in its generic sense with its width

would not be cut down by the specific qualification of one species,

i.e., natural "person" when it is capable to encompass in its ambit,

natural persons, juristic persons and constitutional mechanism of

governance in a democratic set up. The State, by Cabinet form of

Government, is a person ficta, a Corporate sole. Samatha v. State

of A.P. and others, AIR 1997 SC 3297.

                                  Page 67 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                            CAV JUDGMENT



36.4          The expression "person" includes any entity, not

necessarily a human being, to which rights or duties may be

attributed. Under the Act, and Article 300A the expression

"person" includes a company, an association of persons or a body

of individuals, whether incorporated or not and every artificial

juridical person. Therefore, the Petitioners would be "person"

covered under Article 300A of the Constitution.



36.5          The Apex Court had the occasion to consider as to what

is accrued vested right in J. S. Yadav v. State of U.P and

another (2011) 6 SCC 570 in paragraph 20 to 22 which is

extracted as under:-

36.6          The word "property" has not been defined either under

the Act or Article 300A of the Constitution. According to Salmond's

Jurisprudence, word "property" means legal rights of a person of

whatever description.


36.7          Property in legal sense means an aggregate of rights

which are guaranteed and protected by law. It extends to every


                                      Page 69 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                CAV JUDGMENT



species of valuable right and interest, more particularly, ownership

and exclusive right to a thing, the right to dispose of the thing in

every legal way, to possess it, to use it, and to exclude everyone

else from interfering with it. The dominion or indefinite right of use

or disposition which one may lawfully exercise over particular

things or subjects is called property. The exclusive right of

possessing, enjoying, and disposing of a thing is property in legal

parameters. Therefore, the word 'property' connotes everything

which is subject of ownership, corporeal or incorporeal, tangible or

intangible, visible or invisible, real or personal; everything that has

an exchangeable value or which goes to make up wealth or estate

or status. Property, therefore, within the constitutional protection,

denotes group of rights inhering citizen's relation to physical thing,

as right to possess, use and dispose of it in accordance with law. In

Ramanatha Aiyar's The Law Lexicon, Reprint Ed. 1987 at p.1031, it

is stated that the property is the most comprehensive of all terms

which can be used, inasmuch as it is indicative and descriptive of

every possible interest which the party can have. The term

"property" has a most extensive signification, and, according to its

legal definition, consists in free use, enjoyment, and disposition by

a person of all his acquisitions, without any control or diminution,

save only by the laws of the land. In Dwarkadas Srinivas case, this

Court gave extended meaning to the word property. Mines,

minerals and quarries are property attracting Article 300A. Jilubhai

Nanbhai Khachar and others v. State of Gujarat and another 1995



                              Page 70 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT



Supp (1) SCC 596.


36.8           "Property" is a term of the widest import and subject to

any limitation, which the context may require, it signifies every

possible interest which a person can clearly hold or enjoy. If the

property rights are taken away by the Act, are such that would

render the rights illusory and practically valueless, than in effect

and substance, the property of the person has been taken away by

the Act. Ahmed G. H. Ariff and others v. Commissioner of Wealth

Tax, Calcutta (1969) 2 SCC 47.


36.9           We may now examine as to whether the Petitioners

have any vested right to property of which he is being deprived. A

demand for tax under an invalid law would amount to deprivation

of property. Coffee Board Bangalore v. Joint Commercial Tax

Officer AIR 1971 SC 870.


36.10          The Apex Court relying on the Constitution Bench

decision in Deoki Nandan Prasad v. State of Bihar and others, AIR

1971 SC 1409 held that the benefit of pension which accrued to an

employee is in the nature of "property" which cannot be taken

away without the due process of law as per the provisions of Article

300A of the Constitution of India. State of Jharkhand and others v.

Jitendra Kumar Srivastava and another, AIR 2013 SC 3383.




                                Page 71 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                          CAV JUDGMENT



36.11          Right to receive pension under the Service Rule for

service rendered before retirement is 'property' and subsequent

reduction of pension would be 'deprivation' of property within the

purview of Article 300A. State of Kerala v. Padmanabhan AIR 1985

SC 356.


36.12          Copyright is a right to property and the same can be

acquired       only        on   payment     of    compensation.    Entertainment

Network (India) Ltd. v. Super Cassette Industries Ltd. (2008) 13

SCC 30.


36.13          The right to property under Article 300A of the

Constitution of India is not a fundamental right but it is a

Constitutional right. The Legislature can deprive a person of his

property only by authority of law. The Constitution Bench of the

Apex Court in K. T. Plantation (P) Ltd. v. State of Karnataka

(2011) 9 SCC 1, has held in paragraph 168 that Article 300A

proclaims that no person can be deprived of his property save by

authority of law, meaning thereby that a person cannot be deprived

of his property merely by an executive fiat, without any specific

legal authority or without the support of law made by a competent

legislature. The expression `Property' in Article 300A confined not

to land alone, it includes intangibles like copyrights and other

intellectual      property       and    embraces        every   possible   interest

recognized by law.

                                       Page 72 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                               CAV JUDGMENT




36.14          Similarly, valid contracts are property. But the question

is as to what extent a persons rights will be protected when they

are sought to be illegally deprived of their properties on the

strength of a legislation. Accrued right or a vested right is a mature

right which is capable of enforcement in law. Deprivation of

property within the meaning of Article 300A, must take place for

public purpose or public interest. Any law, which deprives a person

of his property has to be justified upon the purpose and object of

the statute and the policy of legislation otherwise it will be

unlawful and unfair and undermines the rule of law and can be

subjected to judicial review.


36.15          Requirement of public purpose, for deprivation of a

person of his property under Article 300A, is a pre-condition. The

legislation providing for deprivation of property under Article 300A

must be "just, fair and reasonable" as understood in terms of

Articles 14 of the Constitution.


36.16          The Petitioners are carrying on business of mineral oil.

When they entered in contract with the Government they were

enjoying seven years tax holiday on multiple undertakings in the

block. They were entitled to 100% exemption on their profits and

gains under the Act. They acquired a vested right on their 100%

exemption on their profits and gains which was the property of the



                                Page 73 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                               CAV JUDGMENT



Petitioners. By the Amendment in the Act they are being deprived

of vested right of property by amending the Act retrospectively. In

our opinion, the right given to the Petitioner for enjoying seven

years tax holiday on each well/cluster of wells or on each

undertaking in the block was an accrued and a vested right which

could not have been taken away expressly or by necessary

implication. In view of Section 6 (c) of the General Clauses Act, the

accrued and vested right of the Petitioner should have been

preserved and could not be destroyed by the impugned amendment

by adding Explanation to Section 80-IB(9) with retrospective effect.

We do not find any material on record which may demonstrate that

the Parliament intended to destroy a right, privilege or benefit

enjoyed by the Petitioner under the unamended Section 80-IB(9) of

the Act, without authority of a valid law.


36.17          In J. S. Yadav (supra), the Apex Court had held that

"vested right" is a right which can arise from a contract, statute or

by operation of law. A vested right can be taken away only if the

law specifically or by necessary implication provide for such a

course. Thus, the State cannot deprive any person, any corporation

or company of his property, without following the rule of law,

violating Article 300A of the Constitution of India.



Article 14 of the Constitution of India.

                               Page 74 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                CAV JUDGMENT
37.           Now coming back to the first question as to whether the

insertion of the Explanation to Section 80-IB(9) of the Act, by

Finance (No.2) Act, 2009 with retrospective effect from 1.4.2000

purporting to explain the meaning of the term "undertaking" is

unconstitutional and ultra vires and offends Article 14 of the

Constitution of India. Whether the explanation provide for a fresh

levy of tax? In other words, did the Legislature in introducing the

impugned explanation materially changed the exemption which

existed till such explanation was introduced? If the effect of the

explanation is to withdraw the existing deductions retrospectively,

the question of the same being unreasonable or arbitrary and

offending Article 14 would arise. Article 14 of the Constitution of

India is reproduced as under:-

37.1          The Petitioners are foreign and domestic companies. A

company or a corporation, being not a citizen, has no fundamental

rights under Article 19 of the Constitution. Nonetheless, the

companies would be entitled to claim protection of their rights

under Article 14 of the Constitution. It would be relevant to

examine whether the respondents have committed breach of Article

14 or any other Constitutional provision which may render the

Amendment Act ultra vires to Article 14 of the Constitution of



                                Page 75 of 139
          C/SCA/13134/2009                                           CAV JUDGMENT



India.


37.2             The power and competence of the Parliament to amend

any    statutory        provision   with retrospective         effect      cannot be

doubted. Any retrospective amendment to be valid must however

be reasonable and not arbitrary and must not be violative of any of

the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution. The

mere fact that any statutory provision has been amended with

retrospective effect does not by itself make the amendment

unreasonable. Unreasonableness or arbitrariness of any such

amendment with retrospective effect has necessarily to be judged

on the merits of the amendment in the light of the facts and

circumstances           under   which       such        amendment     is   made.     In

considering the question as to whether the legislative power to

amend        a   provision      with    retrospective       operation      has     been

reasonably exercised or not it, becomes relevant to enquire as to

how the retrospective effect of the amendment operates.



37.3             Article 14 is part of the basic structure of the

Constitution and, therefore, cannot be abrogated. The Apex Court

in State of A. P. and others. v. Mcdowell & Co. and others (1996) 3

SCC 709, observed that a law made by the Parliament or the

Legislature can be struck down by courts on two grounds and two

grounds alone, viz., (1) lack of legislative competence and (2)

violation of any of the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part-III of



                                       Page 76 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                CAV JUDGMENT



the Constitution or of any other constitutional provision. There is

no third ground. If an enactment challenged as violative of Article

14, it can be struck down only if it is found that it is violative of the

equality clause/equal protection clause enshrined therein.



37.4          If any law or amendment to the law made by Parliament

or legislature overrides or is made in violation of fundamental

rights or any other constitutional provision without sufficient

objective and justification, the Court are empowered to declare the

law arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.

Further, from the scrutiny of the law made by the Parliament or

legislature, if the Court finds that the law which is under challenge

as ultra vires infringes the rights or interests of the Petitioner, the

Court can strike down the enactment.


37.5          Where there is challenge to the constitutional validity of

a law enacted by the legislature, the Court must keep in view that

there is always a presumption of constitutionality of an enactment,

and a clear transgression of constitutional principles must be

shown. The fundamental nature and importance of the legislative

process needs to be recognized by the Court and due regard and

deference must be accorded to the legislative process. Where the

legislation is sought to be challenged as being unconstitutional and

violative of Article 14 of the Constitution, the Court must remind

itself to the principles relating to the applicability of Article 14 in



                                Page 77 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                               CAV JUDGMENT



relation to invalidation of legislation. The two dimensions of Article

14 in its application to legislation and rendering legislation invalid

are now well recognized and these are (i) discrimination, based on

an impermissible            or invalid        classification       and   (ii)   excessive

delegation of powers; conferment of uncanalised and unguided

powers on the executive, whether in the form of delegated

legislation     or    by     way   of     conferment          of   authority     to   pass

administrative orders -- if such conferment is without any guidance,

control or checks, it is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.

The Court also needs to be mindful that a legislation does not

become unconstitutional merely because there is another view or

because another method may be considered to be as good or even

more effective, like any issue of social, or even economic policy. It

is well settled that the courts do not substitute their views on what

the policy is.


37.6          The         Constitution        Bench      of    the   Apex       Court   in

Subramaian           Swamy         v.        Director,        Central     Bureau        of

Investigation and another (2014) 8 SCC 682 after considering

catena of decisions on Article 14 has held in paragraphs 38 to 48 as

under :-


                 Articles 14 and 16 strike at arbitrariness in State
                 action     and        ensure      fairness    and     equality       of
                 treatment.'



37.7.            The Apex Court in Shimnit Utsch India Pvt. Ltd. v.

West        Bengal          Transport              Infrastructure           Development

Corporation Ltd., (2010) 6 SCC 303 held in paragraph 52 that

the government has a discretion to adopt a different policy or alter

or change its policy calculated to serve public interest and make it

more effective. Choice in the balancing of the pros and cons

relevant to the change in policy lies with the authority. But like any

discretion exercisable by the government or public authority,

change      in    policy        must    be    in    conformity       with    Wednesbury

reasonableness and free from arbitrariness, irrationality, bias and

malice.


37.8             In a democratic set up, it is for the legislature to decide

what     economic          or    social    policy      it   should   pursue     or    what

administrative consideration it should bear in mind. It is well

recognized that Parliament or the legislature has to be granted


                                          Page 92 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                               CAV JUDGMENT



greater latitude in framing a taxing statute. The primary purpose

of the levy of all taxes is to raise funds for public good. Which

person should be taxed, what transaction should be taxed or what

goods should be taxed, depends upon social, economic and

administrative considerations. The power of taxation can be used

not merely for raising revenue but also to regulate the economy, to

encourage the social objectives of the State. The Court should

examine the reasonableness of such provision particularly when the

same is brought into operation with retrospective effect. Section

80-IB(9) provides for deduction under certain circumstances. If

such deductions are withdrawn with retrospective effect, surely

there would be a case of providing for a tax which was till then not

known.


37.9           When a tax law or amendment made therein is

impugned under Article 14, the Court is to decide whether the

amendment in tax law is palpably so arbitrary or unreasonable that

it must be struck down. The word 'arbitrary' is used in the sense of

being discriminatory. An act which is discriminatory is liable to be

labeled as arbitrary.


37.10            If from a bare reading of the provisions of the Act or

the amended Act by which Explanation has been added to Section

80-IB(9), it is clear that new tax is being levied with retrospective

effect confers arbitrary, uncancalised, unbridled, unrestricted



                                 Page 93 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                              CAV JUDGMENT



power without recording any reasons and without adhering to the

principles of equality as envisaged in Article 14 of the Constitution,



38.          Before coming to the main question, we deem it

necessary to state that India has already begun its process of

globalization     by     opening     up     world     trade.    We     may    call   it

liberalization, privatization and globalization policy to ensure that

India is in the process of restructuring her economy, with

expressions      of      elevating    and      speeding        up    her   economic

development, in which the foreign direct investment is playing a

major role in rapid economic growth and we are on the fast track to

prosperity. For successful working of the democracy and national

economy, it is essential that the public revenue be generated.



39.          In Reliance Natural Resources Ltd. v. Reliance

Industries Ltd. (2010) 7 SCC 1, the Apex Court observed that in

a constitutional democracy like ours, the national assets belong to

the people. The Government holds such natural resources in trust.

The constitutional mandate is that the natural resources belong to

the people of this country. The Government owns such assets for

the purposes of developing them in the interests of the people. The

natural resources are vested with the Government as a matter of

trust in the name of the people of India. Thus, it is the solemn duty

of the State to protect the national interest.




                                     Page 94 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                CAV JUDGMENT



39.1          The Constitution envisages exploration, extraction and

supply of mineral oil and gas to be within the domain of

governmental functions. It is the duty of the Union to make sure

that these resources are used for the benefit of the citizens of this

country. Due to shortage of funds and technical know-how, the

Government has privatized such activities through the mechanism

provided under the Production Sharing Contract (PSC).



40.           Power to impose tax is essentially a legislative function

under Article 265 of the Constitution of India. Article 265 states

that no tax shall be levied except by authority of law. In a taxing

statute one has to look merely at what is clearly said. There is no

room for any intendment. There is no equity about a tax. There is

no presumption as to tax. Nothing is to be read in, nothing is to be

implied. One can only look fairly at the language used.



41.           Income-tax Act, 1961 do not explicitly or impliedly

forbid as to how a company and the Government should enter into

agreements or contracts. In absence of contract, there is no vested

interest which requires the continuance of a legislative policy

however expressed in a system of taxation. A vested right is a legal

and enforceable right, enforceable by a legal process.



42.           Liberal tax incentives for undertaking specific activities

such a exploration of mineral oil and gases could be granted by the



                                Page 95 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                        CAV JUDGMENT



Government. The Parliament or the Legislature had taken adequate

measure in framing a genuine policy for exploring mineral oil and

gases for purely commercial purpose in national interest by inviting

parties internationally to make investments by offering tax-holiday.

The genuine intention of the Parliament or the Legislature inviting

investments has to be recognized and honored. The tax planning

was legitimate and the petroleum policy and the provisions of the

Income-tax Act, 1961, were within the framework of law.



43.          The Government invited foreign company to India

including domestic companies by issuing global tender by opening

up foreign direct investment, in the field of exploration of mineral

oil and gases, under the PSC, where the Petitioner was to carry on

the exploration, development and production of mineral oil and

natural gas. The Petitioner is subject to Income Tax law in India.

He has been awarded the right to explore, develop and produce

mineral oil in various blocks. For this purpose, the Petitioner has

entered    into     Production   Sharing          Contract   (PSC)   with    the

Government of India for exploration, development and production

of "mineral oil". The PSC specifies the area over which the

Petitioner has been given such rights. PSC defines the Contract

Area as a Block. He has been producing crude oil and natural gas

from Hazira and Surat Blocks. He has been producing crude oil and

natural gas from such Blocks. He has been claiming benefit of

deduction of 100% of the profits and gains from the production of



                                 Page 96 of 139
          C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT



mineral oil and natural gas under Section 80-IB(9) as it stood prior

to an amendment to Section 80-IB(9) of the Act, which was

introduced by the Finance (No.2) Act, 2009. In these proceedings,

the constitutional validity of the amendment to sub-Section (9) of

Section 80-IB of the Act by the Finance (No.2) Act, 2009, has been

challenged.

44.             After the foreign investors entered India and apart from

other sectors, they also participated in exploration, discovery and

commercial production of mineral oil and gases, the Finance

Minister in his speech under the pretext of clarification, added an

Explanation by laying down an absolutely new proposition that all

blocks under a single contract would be treated as a single

undertaking. The effect, it appears is devastating on the investors.

They have carried out commercial production of mineral oil under a

bonafide belief that each well/cluster of wells is an undertaking and

he enjoys the benefit of 100% tax deduction for a period of seven

years on each well/cluster of wells which is an undertaking and

qualifies for tax deduction. The amendment in Section 80-IB(9) and

addition of Explanation was made by the legislature by Finance

(No.2) Act, 2009 which was given retrospective operation with

effect from 1.4.2000, after the Petitioner had started commercial

production and were entitled for 100% tax deduction on profits and

gains.

45.             The ownership of natural resources embedded in the

sea bed and ground vests in the State and the policy for


                                 Page 97 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                             CAV JUDGMENT



exploitation of the said resources was also as formulated by the

Central Government. In order that the private sector companies are

attracted to participate in the exploration, development and

production of hydrocarbons, the NELP was notified by the Central

Government and it provided certain assurances to the prospective

participants. Under the NELP, the Central Government invited

offers for exploration of mineral oil for every block and commenced

the process of entering into a PSC with the successful bidders who

is nomenclature as the contractor under the PSC.



46.          Notice Inviting Offers under the NELP, where under the

heading "Main Features of the Terms Offered", it was stated that

"Income Tax Holiday" for seven years from the start of commercial

production" will be available and further that "To facilitate

investors, a Petroleum Tax Guide (PTG) is in place". A gas basin

comprises of a huge area and each basin may comprise of a number

of blocks with delineated areas. Each block may have one or more

gas or oil fields where hydrocarbons had been discovered. Every

field may have one or more wells, depending on the extent of the

mineral oil reserve driven by technical requirements. Once a

discovery is announced and declared to be a "commercial

discovery", an elaborate process has been laid down in the PSC not

only for approving it as a commercial discovery, but right down to

the number of wells which the contractor was to drill. For this

purpose, a separate development plan for development of each



                             Page 98 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                      CAV JUDGMENT



field is prepared by the contractor and is approved by a body

known as the Management Committee in which the Government

has the veto power. Each of such wells/cluster of wells is a separate

and independent undertaking. Moreover, the notice inviting offers

and   the    PSC         envisage   an   exploration   period,   followed   by

development and production period. The exploration period is a

maximum of seven years. While the notice inviting offers envisaged

production in a phased manner, it is a contradiction to state that

the period of seven years exemption for the entire block, should

commence from the time when the first well started commercial

production. The exploration, development and production, are

phase-wise for every block and it would not be right to state that

the period of seven years for the entire block would commence

from the date of commercial production in the very first well, when

the other areas of the block were still under exploration or

development stage as stipulated in the PSC. The term undertaking,

therefore, cannot be construed to mean the entire block to reckon

the period of seven years of the tax holiday.

47.          The benefits of deductions under Section 80-IA were

expressly made available with effect from 1.4.1999 by amending

the then existing Section 80-IA. Later on Section 80-IB(9) was

introduced to provide for such benefits. At all times the benefit had

been available to an "undertaking". Neither Section 80-IA, Section

80-IB nor the provisions of PSC provided that the "undertaking"



                                    Page 99 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                             CAV JUDGMENT



would be construed as a whole Block.

48.           The Central Government would closely scrutinize and

approve every stage of exploration, development and production of

mineral oil. It was pointed out that the Central Government is not

only in majority in the Managing Committee under PSC but also

has a veto power. In the course of development of the Block and in

some cases of the field, Development Plans consisting of either a

single well/cluster of wells had been approved. Thus, the Central

Government has always been aware that there are more than one

undertaking in each Block, has acted on this premise in approving

more than one Commercial Discovery in each Development Area of

a Block and cannot now introduce by retrospective amendment, the

concept that an entire Block would be a single undertaking, and

that   such an amendment             is    liable         to   be struck    down as

unreasonable and arbitrary.

Meaning of the word "undertaking" before the insertion of

the Explanation to Section 80-IB(9)
49.                  Before   we     advert          to    the   newly     introduced

Explanation to Section 80-IB(9), it would be relevant to find out the

width and ambit of sub-clause (ii) to Section 80-IB(9) before the

insertion of the Explanation, which reads as under :-


49.1          Three conditions need to be satisfied cumulatively to

derive benefit under Section 80-IB(9). Firstly, the undertaking

should be located in any part of India. Secondly, it has begun or

begins commercial production of mineral oil and thirdly on or after

1st day of April 1997.


49.2          In other words, one hundred percent of profits of an

undertaking on its commercial production of mineral oil would

secure deduction of the profits and gains for seven consecutive

years from the year of commencement of commercial production.

Consequently, an undertaking for the purpose of Section 80-IB(9)

has to be understood as one engaged in commercial production of

mineral oil, Neither of the expressions, namely, "undertaking" or

"commercial production" have been defined under Section 80-IB of

the Act. The Apex Court had defined and laid down the test as to

what would constitute an "undertaking" in the case of Textile

Machinery Corporation Ltd. (supra). This was the case relating a

claim by the assessee under Section 15C of the Income Tax Act,

1922 and vide paragraph 2, two questions were referred before the

High Court as follows:-

                                Page 101 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                          CAV JUDGMENT
               (1)        Whether,    on      the      facts   and   in    the
               circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in
               holding that the Steel Foundry Division was an
               industrial undertaking to which Section 15C of the
               Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 was applied?

               (2)        Whether,    on      the      facts   and   in    the
               circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in
               holding that the Jute Mill Division set up by the
               assessee-company was an industrial undertaking to
               which Section 15C of the Indian Income-tax Act,
               1922, applied?

49.3          It was the contention of the revenue that setting up of a

separate unit to do something in the course of pre-existing

manufacturing process to aid the production of the same article as

was been produced by the pre-existing industrial undertaking

would not amount to starting of new industrial undertaking. It was

contended that the production of articles in the steel foundry and in

the jute mill division is only ancillary activity to the main business

of the assessee and since the articles produced in these two

supplemental undertakings help in producing identical articles

which has been the end product of the assessee main business and

the provision cannot come to the aid of the assessee.



49.4          The Apex Court laid out a set of criteria as to what

qualifies as an undertaking. There must be a substantial investment

of fresh capital in order to enable earning of profits attributable to



                                     Page 102 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT




that new capital. It should yield additional profits attributable to

the new outlay of capital in a distinct unit and this is the heart of

the matter.


49.5          Expansion of an existing business would not deprive the

benefit since every new creation in business is some kind of

expansion or advancement. The true test is not whether a new

industrial undertaking connotes expansion of the existing business

of the assessee, but whether it is a new and identifiable

undertaking separate and distinct from the existing business. The

new undertaking must exist on its own as a viable unit. A new

undertaking can exist even after cessation of the principal business

of the assessee and vice versa. It does not matter whether the new

activity produces the same commodity of the old business or

distinct marketable commodity or even commodities which may

feed the old business. What is relevant is that the new undertaking

must be an integrated unit by itself capable of its own production.

It would be a new undertaking if there is no transfer of any asset

from the old business. If the results achieved are commercially

tangible and undertakings can be carried out separately without

losing its identity in the old business, it would constitute a new

undertaking. Maintenance of separate books of accounts and

discernible profits would also aid the conclusion.



49.6          In short, an undertaking is one which on a standalone

basis is an economically independent unit. As long as this test is




                              Page 103 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                            CAV JUDGMENT




satisfied, it is immaterial whether the undertaking carries out the

same business or different business. Economically independent

units    doing      the     same   business          would    constitute    separate

undertakings.


49.7           Applying the above law laid down by the Apex Court,

the sole test is if a unit is able to conduct or perform commercial

production of mineral oil that unit would become an undertaking

irrespective of the fact it is engaged in production of the very same

product, namely, mineral oil.


49.8           It    is    important     to    highlight     that   the    expression

"undertaking" should not be equated or read as an assessee. This is

the essential principle evolved by Courts over a period of time. An

assessee is entitled to have more than one undertaking and it can

even carry on the same business or distinct business. The test is,

the     undertaking        economically        independent      and    commercially

carrying out the activities as a self sustainable unit.



49.9           PSC is a sovereign contract entered into on behalf of

the President of India under Article 299 of the Constitution of

India. The Petitioner in paragraph 13 of the affidavit has brought

on record the methodology for development of oil and gas fields. A

perusal of the same indicates that there are detailed activities for

exploration and development of every oil field. First, a seismic

analysis is done, then exploratory wells are drilled following which




                                       Page 104 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                  CAV JUDGMENT




appraisal wells are drilled. Once the contractor believes that oil or

natural gas has been struck, he shall give a detailed commerciality

plan to the Management Committee. Once this is approved, a

Development Plan is prepared for the field which contains detailed

proposals for constructions, establishment and operations for all

the facilities and services or incidental to the recovery, storage and

transportation of mineral oil from the proposed Development Area.

Thereafter, on the basis of the approved plan, either one or

multiple wells are drilled for exploiting the reservoir. It is pertinent

to note that there is a Development Plan approved by the

Management Committee for every Development Area/Field.



49.10          We now refer to the PSC dated 17th July 2001 entered

into    between the        Petitioner   and     the Government   of India.

Commercial Production of mineral oil is possible only when the

Management Committee comprising of the Petitioner and the

Government is able to declare a Commercial Discovery. Article 1.19

defines Commercial Discovery to mean discovery of petroleum

reserves which has been declared as Commercial Discovery in

accordance with the provisions of Article 10 and Article 21. Article

1.20 defines Commercial Production means production of crude oil

or condensate or natural gas or any combination of these from the

Contract Area (excluding production for testing purposes) and

delivery of the same at the relevant delivery point under a

programme of regular production and sale.

                                  Page 105 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                              CAV JUDGMENT




49.11          Contract Area is the whole area under the PSC. A

Commercial Discovery when made from any part of the Contract

Area would qualify to become a Development Area. Article 1.31 of

the PSC defines Development Area means "part of the Contract

Area which encompasses one or more Commercial Discoveries and

any   additional           area   that    may      be      required   for   the   proper

development of such Commercial Discoveries and established as

such in accordance with the provisions of the Contract. Article 1.34

defines Development Plan means "submitted by the Contractor for

the development of a Commercial Discovery, which has been

approved by the Management Committee or the Government

pursuant to Article 10 or Article 21.


49.12          Article 1.37 defines Discovery means the finding during

petroleum operations of a deposit of petroleum not previously

known to have existed which can be recovered at the surface in a

flow measurable by conventional petroleum industry testing

methods. Article 1.38 defines Discovery Area means that part of the

Contract Area about which based on Discovery under results

obtained from a well or wells drilled in such part, the Contractor is

of the opinion that petroleum exists and is likely to be produced in

commercial quantities.


49.13          Article 1.51 defines Gas Field means within the

Contract Area, a natural gas reservoir or a group of natural gas

reservoirs within a common geological structure or feature. Article




                                         Page 106 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                  CAV JUDGMENT




1.66 defines an Oil Field means within the Contract Area an oil

reservoir or group of oil reservoirs within a common geological

structure. Article 1.88 defines Well means a bore hole, made by

drilling in the course of petroleum operations but does not include

a seismic shot hole.


49.14          An analysis of the above definitions along with Article

10 and Article 21 would make the following things clear:-



49.15          From the above, it is clear that Commercial Production

involves a step by step process identified to every Development

Area comprising a well or cluster of wells. The PSC further

obligates that the investment, costs, work programme, budget and

expenditure is separately identified for each such Development

Area. Revenue streams are identifiable from mineral oil produced

from each of the Development Area/Field.


49.16          Therefore, it is clear that Commercial Production in

terms of Section 80-IB(9)(ii) would arise when a Contractor

proceeds to commercially produce mineral oil from each and every

Development Area/Field with standalone, independent, identified

investment,        costs,   budgets   and      revenues.    The   activities   of

commercial production of every Development Area/Field qualifies

as an undertaking being standalone and economically independent

unit in terms of the principles laid out by the Apex Court in Textile

Machinery Corporation Ltd. Case, followed without deviation by

various courts subsequently. Accordingly, a Block or a Contract

Area can have more than one undertaking since it involves more

than one Commercial Discovery, Development Area, Development

Plan    and      execution    of   the    commercial       production   on     an

independent standalone basis.

                                   Page 108 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                                 CAV JUDGMENT




49.17          The Explanation inserted by the Finance (No.2) Act

2009 in 80-IB(9) is reproduced below:-

undertaking in the Act by inserting Explanation would evidently

bring to light the fact that prior to the insertion of the Explanation,

even Government was of the view that each Block can have more

than one undertaking in view of the various articles in the PSC as

set out above. The usage of the expression "single" in the

Explanation would automatically give rise to the legal inference of

existence of multiple undertakings for the same assessee within the

same Contract Area or Block. The Explanation proceeds to deem

multiple undertakings as a single undertaking with reference to the

Block licensed. This is the plain and simple meaning and

interpretation one can extend to the Explanation.


                                        Page 109 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                             CAV JUDGMENT




49.18          Section     80-IB(9)(ii)      before          the   insertion    of     the

Explanation had created a substantive vested right in the Petitioner

in deriving profits and seeking deductions for every undertaking

comprised in each Development Area within the Contract Area or

Block. No ambiguity or doubt could be imputed to Section 80-IB(9)
(ii) of the Act.


49.19          In this backdrop, one has to now consider whether

insertion of Explanation by Finance (No.2) Act, 2009 with

retrospective application from 1.4.2000 would be valid and

sustainable in law. The above analysis would indicate that though

the expression "Undertaking" has not been defined under the Act,

it has acquired a well defined meaning through consistent judicial

decisions commencing from Textile Machinery case. The expression

'Undertaking' is used in various provisions of the Act, while

conferring the benefits under different schemes. It is clear that

commercial         production   of     mineral         oil    happens    from        every

Development Area/Field consisting of a well or cluster of wells with

a Development Plan being approved for every Development

Area/Field thereby making every Development Area/Field as an

independent economic unit. Every Development Area/Field is thus

an "Undertaking". The Petitioner placed on record the decision of

the ITAT rendered in their own case for the Assessment Year 2001-

02. The Respondent contended that this matter is under challenge



                                     Page 110 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                     CAV JUDGMENT



in appeals before the High Court which are pending. This decision,

however, has not been stayed.


49.20          Looking at the whole conspectus, it is clear that the

term "Undertaking" has acquired a consistent statutory meaning. It

is true that legislature is entitled to depart from this meaning and

can define it the way it chooses to do so. While doing so, it has to

resort to the process known to and approved by law. The

explanation introduced by Finance Act (No.2) of 2009 is a

departure from the settled interpretative meaning given by Courts

to the expression 'Undertaking". Any departure, therefore, has to

be   through         the   process     of    validation   which   has   to   be

notwithstanding any law or decision. The Explanation is not a non-

obstante clause, notwithstanding any law or decision, it proceeds

under the presumption that an existing ambiguity is sought to be

clarified when, in reality, there is none. In fact, the usage of the

expression "single" before the term 'undertaking' in the explanation

evidences the legal understanding that the undertaking is not

synonymous to assessee and an assessee can have more than one

undertaking doing the same or distinct business as long as they are

independent stand alone units. When, clearly there can be separate

commercial discoveries for every Development Area/Field which

may consists of one well or cluster of wells which makes each

Development Area an "Undertaking" and this is as per the

Production Sharing Contract (PSC) entered into between the



                                     Page 111 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                    CAV JUDGMENT



Petitioner and the Central Government, there does not exist any

ambiguity under the Act.


49.21          There is no ambiguity or doubt which needed to be

explained by this Explanation, if uniform settled interpretation and

meaning needs to be departed, the amendments sought to be

carried out, can only be through the process of validation and not

through insertion of an Explanation which is not in the nature of

validation.


Legislative intent for adding by Amendment Explanation to

Section 80-IB(9).

50.            For the purpose of finding out the legislative intent, it is

necessary to examine the reason for enacting Section 80-IB(9) of

the Act and what was the provision earlier. For gathering the

legislative intent to give retrospectively to the Explanation added

by amendment to Section 80-IB(9) its apposite to find out the

reasons and whether they are reasonable and for this purpose, it

will be necessary to take into account the history of legislation or

the averment introduces a tax which is substantive in nature under

the garb of adding a definition which is clarificatory, declaratory,

curative or makes "small repair" in the Act.


50.1           In Apollo Tyres Ltd. v.             Commissioner of Income




                                 Page 112 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                         CAV JUDGMENT



Tax, Kochi, (2002) 9 SCC 1, the Apex Court examined the object

of introducing Section 115-J in the Act. The Court relied on the

budget speech of the then Hon'ble Finance Minister of India made

in the Parliament while introducing the said Section.



50.2          In Union of India and others v.                  Martin Lottery

Agencies Ltd. (2002) 9 SCC 209, the Apex Court in paragraph

36 to 39, 45, 50 to 52 held as under:-

50.3          The briefly set out the history of the Government's

policy and the tax holidays in regard to production of mineral oil in

the country.

               (i)        Prior to 1999, the Government had a policy

               with       respect     to   exploration,      development     and

               production of mineral oil in the country. When

               private participation was permitted for the first

               time under the extant policy.

               (ii)       It was under this policy that the Petitioner

               entered into its first PSC on 23rd September 1994

               with the Government of India and the benefit of

               deductions        to        an   undertaking       engaged         in



                                       Page 116 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                  CAV JUDGMENT



               commercial production of mineral oil in any part of

               India on or after the 1st day of April 1997 was first

               introduced by Finance Act 1998 in Section 80-IA of

               the Income Tax Act, 1961.

               (iii)      The Government, in order to attract private

               investments in the mineral oil sector, formulated

               the New Exploration and Licensing Policy (NELP)

               which came to be notified in the official gazette on

               10th February, 1999. Among other things, the NELP

               stated that a seven years tax holiday from the date

               of commencement of commercial production would

               be available to the contractors under NELP. The

               NELP also stated that a separate Petroleum Tax

               Guide would be in place to facilitate the investors.



50.4          Statement of the Finance Minister on the floor of the

Parliament while moving the motion for the consideration of

Finance Bill 2008 :-

50.5          The Finance Minister on the floor of the Parliament

while moving the motion for the consideration of Finance Bill 2008

stated that the sub-section allows 100 per cent tax exemption in

respect of an undertaking which begins commercial production or

refining of mineral oil for a period of seven consecutive assessment



                                     Page 118 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                      CAV JUDGMENT



years and he assured the potential bidders for mineral oil

exploration blocks that the benefit of Section 80IB(9), as finally

interpreted by the courts, will be applicable to all exploration and

production contracts, whether obtained through nomination or

bidding.


50.6           After the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal held the each

well is a separate undertaking entitled for seven years tax holiday

on each well from the date when commercial production begins and

the assessee was entitled to 100% tax deduction on profits and

gains the law was amended by the Parliament with retrospective

effect, though the Revenue had challenged the judgment of ITAT

before High Court in appeals which are still pending. Budget

speech of the Finance Minister while introducing Finance (No.2)

Bill, 2009:-
50.7            The legislative intent is clearly reflected in the action of

the legislature in adding Explanation to Section 80-IB(9) by

Finance (No.2) Act, 2009 by way of amendment with retrospective

effect. It is easily discernible, that the legislature wanted to

overcome the decision of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal

wherein it had been held the each well is a separate undertaking

entitled for seven years tax holiday on each well. The adding of

Explanation to Section 80-IB(9) with retrospection effect by

amendment to was aimed to charge income tax from mineral oil

contractors who were benefited by 100% tax holiday for seven

years.


50.8            To attain welfare state is our constitutional goal as well,

enshrined as one of its basic feature, which runs through our

Constitution. It is for this reason, specific provisions are made in

the Constitution, empowering the legislature to make laws for levy

of taxes, including the income-tax. The rationale behind collection

of taxes is that revenue generated therefrom shall be spent by the

governments on various developmental and welfare schemes,

among others.

Explanation to Section 80-IB(9) by Finance (No.2) Act, 2009


                                  Page 120 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                              CAV JUDGMENT



by    way     of     amendment             with         retrospective      effect    is

clarificatory, declaratory, curative or makes "small repair" or

a substantive provision



51.          The         Constitutional     Bench        of   the   Apex    Court    in

Commissioner of Income Tax (Central)-I, New Delhi v. Vatika

Township Private Limited, (2015) 1 SCC 1 has held that though

an Act consists of words printed on paper, it amounts to verbal

communication            by   legislation.      The       technique     required     to

understand      legislation      is   governed          by    various   principles   of

interpretation of statutes. In paragraph 27, the Court observed of

the various rules guiding how a legislation has to be interpreted,

one established rule is that unless a contrary intention appears, a

legislation is presumed not to be intended to have a retrospective

operation. The idea behind the rule is that a current law should

govern current activities. Law passed today cannot apply to the

events of the past. If we do something today, we do it keeping in

view the law of today and in force and not tomorrow's backward

adjustment of it. Our belief in the nature of the law is founded on

the bed rock that every human being is entitled to arrange his

affairs by relying on the existing law and should not find that his

plans have been retrospectively upset. This principle of law is

known as lex prospicit non respicit: law looks forward not

backward. As was observed in Phillips v. Eyre [(1870) LR 6 QB 1], a

retrospective legislation is contrary to the general principle that



                                      Page 121 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                               CAV JUDGMENT



legislation by which the conduct of mankind is to be regulated

when introduced for the first time to deal with future acts ought

not to change the character of past transactions carried on upon

the faith of the then existing law.


51.1          We would also like to point out, for the sake of

completeness, that where a benefit is conferred by a legislation, the

rule against a retrospective construction is different. If a legislation

confers a benefit on some persons but without inflicting a

corresponding detriment on some other person or on the public

generally, and where to confer such benefit appears to have been

the legislators object, then the presumption would be that such a

legislation, giving it a purposive construction, would warrant it to

be given a retrospective effect. This exactly is the justification to

treat procedural provisions as retrospective. In Government of

India and others v. Indian Tobacco Association (2005) 7 SCC 396,

the doctrine of fairness was held to be relevant factor to construe a

statute conferring a benefit, in the context of it to be given a

retrospective operation. The same doctrine of fairness, to hold that

a statute was retrospective in nature, was applied in the case of

Vijay v. State of Maharashtra and others (2006) 6 SCC 286. It was

held that where a law is enacted for the benefit of community as a

whole, even in the absence of a provision the statute may be held to

be retrospective in nature. However, we are not confronted with

any such situation here.

                              Page 122 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                             CAV JUDGMENT




51.2          In such cases, retrospectively is attached to benefit the

persons in contradistinction to the provision imposing some burden

or liability where the presumption attaches towards prospectivity.

In the instant case, the proviso added to Section 113 of the Act is

not beneficial to the assessee. On the contrary, it is a provision

which is onerous to the assessee. Therefore, in a case like this, we

have to proceed with the normal rule of presumption against

retrospective operation. Thus, the rule against retrospective

operation is a fundamental rule of law that no statute shall be

construed to have a retrospective operation unless such a

construction appears very clearly in the terms of the Act, or arises

by necessary and distinct implication. Dogmatically framed, the

rule is no more than a presumption, and thus could be displaced by

out weighing factors.


51.3          Let us sharpen the discussion a little more. We may

note that under certain circumstances, a particular amendment can

be treated as clarificatory or declaratory in nature. Such statutory

provisions are labeled as "declaratory statutes". The circumstances

under which a provision can be termed as "declaratory statutes" is

explained      by     Justice     G.P.    Singh       [Principles     of    Statutory

Interpretation,       13th      Edition   2012        published     by     LexisNexis

Butterworths        Wadhwa,        Nagpur]       in    the   following       manner:

"Declaratory        statutes. The presumption against retrospective



                                    Page 123 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT



operation is not applicable to declaratory statutes. As stated in

CRAIES and approved by the Supreme Court : "For modern

purposes a declaratory Act may be defined as an Act to remove

doubts existing as to the common law, or the meaning or effect of

any statute. Such Acts are usually held to be retrospective. The

usual reason for passing a declaratory Act is to set aside what

Parliament deems to have been a judicial error, whether in the

statement of the common law or in the interpretation of statutes.

Usually, if not invariably, such an Act contains a preamble, and also

the word 'declared' as well as the word 'enacted'. But the use of the

words 'it is declared' is not conclusive that the Act is declaratory

for these words may, at times, be used to introduced new rules of

law and the Act in the latter case will only be amending the law and

will not necessarily be retrospective. In determining, therefore, the

nature of the Act, regard must be had to the substance rather than

to the form. If a new Act is 'to explain' an earlier Act, it would be

without object unless construed retrospective. An explanatory Act

is generally passed to supply an obvious omission or to clear up

doubts as to the meaning of the previous Act. It is well settled that

if a statute is curative or merely declaratory of the previous law

retrospective operation is generally intended. The language 'shall

be deemed always to have meant' is declaratory, and is in plain

terms retrospective. In the absence of clear words indicating that

the amending Act is declaratory, it would not be so construed when

the pre-amended provision was clear and unambiguous. An



                             Page 124 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                CAV JUDGMENT



amending Act may be purely clarificatory to clear a meaning of a

provision of the principal Act which was already implicit. A

clarificatory amendment of this nature will have retrospective

effect and, therefore, if the principal Act was existing law which the

Constitution came into force, the amending Act also will be part of

the existing law." The above summing up is factually based on the

judgments of this Court as well as English decisions.



51.4          A Constitution Bench of this Court in Keshavlal Jethalal

Shah v. Mohanlal Bhagwandas & Anr. [(1968) 3 SCR 623], while

considering the nature of amendment to Section 29 (2) of the

Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act as

amended by Gujarat Act 18 of 1965, observed as follows :-



51.5          We      would   also like to reproduce    hereunder      the

following observations made by this Court in the case of Govind




                                 Page 125 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                             CAV JUDGMENT



Das v. Income-tax Officer (1976) 1 SCC 906, while holding Section

171 (6) of the Income- Tax Act to be prospective and inapplicable

for any assessment year prior to 1st April, 1962, the date on which

the Act came into force :

51.6          In the case of C.I.T., Bombay v. Scindia Steam

Navigation Co. Ltd. [1962 (1) SCR 788], this Court held that as the


                                   Page 126 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT



liability to pay tax is computed according to the law in force at the

beginning of the assessment year, i.e., the first day of April, any

change in law affecting tax liability after that date though made

during the currency of the assessment year, unless specifically

made retrospective, does not apply to the assessment for that year.



51.7          At the same time, it is also mandated that there cannot

be imposition of any tax without the authority of law. Such a law

has to be unambiguous and should prescribe the liability to pay

taxes in clear terms. If the concerned provision of the taxing

statute is ambiguous and vague and is susceptible to two

interpretations, the interpretation which favours the subjects, as

against there the revenue, has to be preferred. This is a well

established principle of statutory interpretation, to help finding out

as to whether particular category of assessee are to pay a

particular tax or not. No doubt, with the application of this

principle, Courts make endeavour to find out the intention of the

legislature. At the same time, this very principle is based on

"fairness" doctrine as it lays down that if it is not very clear from

the provisions of the Act as to whether the particular tax is to be

levied to a particular class of persons or not, the subject should not

be fastened with any liability to pay tax. This principle also acts as

a balancing factor between the two jurisprudential theories of

justice - Libertarian theory on the one hand and Kantian theory

along with Egalitarian theory propounded by John Rawls on the



                              Page 127 of 139
        C/SCA/13134/2009                                          CAV JUDGMENT



other hand.


51.8          Tax laws are clearly in derogation of personal rights

and property interests and are, therefore, subject to strict

construction,       and   any   ambiguity       must       be   resolved    against

imposition of the tax. In Billings v. U.S.[232 U.S. 261, at p.265, 34

S.Ct. 421 (1914)], the Supreme Court clearly acknowledged this

basic and long- standing rule of statutory construction:



51.9          Again, in United States v. Merriam [263 U.S. 179, 44

S.Ct. 69 (1923)], the Supreme Court clearly stated at pp. 187-88-:



51.10          As Lord Cairns said many years ago in Partington v.

Attorney- General [(1869) LR 4 HL 100]: "As I understand the

principle of all fiscal legislation it is this : If the person sought to be

taxed comes within the letter of the law he must be taxed, however

great the hardship may appear to the judicial mind to be. On the

other hand, if the Crown, seeking to recover the tax, cannot bring

the subject within the letter of the law, the subject is free, however

apparently within the spirit of the law the case might otherwise

appear to be.


51.11          "Notes on Clauses" appended to Finance Bill, 2002

while proposing insertion of proviso categorically states that "this

amendment will take effect from 1st June, 2002". These become

epigraphic       words,    when   seen     in       contradistinction   to     other

amendments specifically stating those to be clarificatory or

retrospectively depicting clear intention of the legislature. It can be

seen from the same notes that few other amendments in the Act

were made by the same Finance Act specifically making those

amendments retrospectively. For example, clause 40 seeks to

amend S.92F. Clause iii (a) of S.92F is amended "so as to clarify

that the activities mentioned in the said clause include the carrying

out of any work in pursuance of a contract." This amendment takes


                                  Page 129 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                  CAV JUDGMENT



effect retrospectively from 01.04.2002. Various other amendments

also take place retrospectively. The Notes on Clauses show that the

legislature is fully aware of 3 concepts :-

51.12          Thus, it was a conscious decision of the legislature,

even when the legislature knew the implication thereof and took

note of the reasons which led to the insertion of the proviso that

the amendment is to operate prospectively. Learned counsel

appearing for the assessees sagaciously contrasted the aforesaid

stipulation while effecting amendment in Section 113 of the Act,

with various other provisions not only in the same Finance Act but

Finance Acts pertaining to other years where the legislature

specifically provided such amendment to be either retrospective or

clarificatory. In so far as amendment to Section 113 is concerned,

there is no such language used and on the contrary, specific

stipulation is added making the provision effective from 1st June,

2002.


51.13          Furthermore, an amendment made to a taxing statute



                                     Page 130 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                               CAV JUDGMENT



can be said to be intended to remove 'hardships' only of the

assessee, not of the Department. On the contrary, imposing a

retrospective levy on the assessee would have caused undue

hardship and for that reason Parliament specifically chose to make

the proviso effective from 1.6.2002.

52.          The Apex Court in Commissioner of Income Tax-I,

Ahmedabad v. Gold Coin Health Food Pvt. Ltd. (2008) 9 SCC

622, in paragraph 6 held that penalty provision were already in

existence and penalty was not imposed for the first time. The

amendment by the Finance Act as specifically noted in the Notes on

Clauses makes the position clear that the amendment was

clarificatory in nature and would apply to all assessments even

prior to assessment year 2003-04. The Apex Court further held in

paragraph 8 that even if the statute does contain a statement to the

effect that the amendment is clarificatory or declaratory, that is not

the end of the matter. The Court has to analyse the nature of the

amendment to come to a conclusion whether it is in reality a

clarificatory or declaratory provision. Therefore, the date from

which the amendment is made operative does not conclusively

decide the question. The Court has to examine the scheme of the

statute prior to the amendment and subsequent to the amendment

to determine whether amendment is clarificatory or substantive.

The Apex Court in paragraph 20 relied on the decision in Zile Singh

v. State of Haryana and others (2004) 8 SCC 1 with approval that it


                             Page 131 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                     CAV JUDGMENT



is a cardinal principle of construction that every statute is prima

facie prospective unless it is expressly or by necessary implication

made to have a retrospective operation. But the rule in general is

applicable where the object of the statute is to affect vested rights

or to impose new burdens or to impair existing obligations. Unless

there are words in the statute sufficient to show the intention of the

legislature to affect existing rights, it is deemed to be prospective

only -- "nova constitutio futuris formam imponere debet non

praeteritis" -- a new law ought to regulate what is to follow, not

the past.

53.          The Apex Court in Martin Lottery Agencies Ltd. (supra),

in paragraph 19 and 36 held as under:-
54.          The Petitioner has been claiming a well or a cluster of

wells each as a separate undertaking and according to him, in a



                                 Page 132 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                         CAV JUDGMENT



block, there may be various fields and various undertakings and

each undertaking had been granted benefit of deductions under the

benefits of deductions under Section 80-IA were expressly made

available with effect from 1.4.1999 by amending the then existing

Section 80-IA. Later on Section 80-IB(9) was introduced to provide

for such benefits.

55.            The argument of learned counsel for the respondent, if

accepted, would be contrary to the legislative intent as the seven

years    tax     holiday    was   provided       by   inviting    public   private

participation       contract as huge expenditure was involved                   in

exploration, discovery and commercial production of mineral oil.

The benefit of 100% deduction on profits and gains was granted by

the legislature under the Act to invite investment and encourage

mineral oil exploration, discovery and commercial production. The

legislature gave a clear message to foreign and domestic investors

that the State is encouraging mineral oil and gases exploration and

commercial production by granting seven years tax holiday to an

undertaking.

56.            We propose to test the argument of learned counsel for

the respondent. It is not disputed that the benefit of seven years

tax holiday was available to the Petitioner and is still available to

the Petitioner.        The question is as to whether the benefits of tax

holiday of seven years was available on each undertaking which

has now been taken away by the amendment made in Section 80-
                                   Page 133 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                              CAV JUDGMENT




IB(9) by adding an Explanation that provides that all blocks

licensed under a single contract shall be treated as a single

undertaking. The PSC provides a period of four years for

exploration of mineral oil etc. The argument of learned counsel for

the respondent is that the moment the first well starts commercial

production of mineral oil, the clock of seven year tax holiday starts

ticking and even if the other wells may have been explored or

discovered or started commercial production after two, three or

about the end of four years period, the Petitioner would be entitled

only to a limited part of tax holiday which may be three or four

years which may be available when the commercial production

starts in a well, as the period of seven years tax holiday has to be

counted from the date the first well started commercial production.



57.          The argument of learned counsel for the respondent

cannot be accepted. If we take an example that a block consists of

200 square Kms., wherein exploration, discovery and commercial

production has to be commenced by the Petitioner within a period

of four years. If he discovers a well, wherein commercial

production can be commenced within a period of three months or

six months from the date he started exploration, then whether he

should wait and continue to make investment on exploration and

discovery of mineral oil in the entire stretch of 200 square Kms.,

and start commercial production of all the wells together so that all

the well/cluster of wells start commercial production on the same

day so that he may avail the tax holiday of seven years on all the




                             Page 134 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                             CAV JUDGMENT




wells/cluster of wells by making huge investments in machines

manpower etc.. But this was not mentioned either in the PSC or in

the petroleum tax guide.

58.          The object of the amendment, as it appears from the

statements of the Finance Minister while moving the Finance

(No.2) Bill 2009, was to define the term "undertaking" in the

context of mineral oil which was subject matter of considerable

dispute. The assessees who are claiming every well in a block

licensed constitutes a single undertaking entitled for tax holiday

separately for each well. According to the Finance Minister, the

view taken by the assessee were against the legislative intent.

What was the legislative intent when 100% tax deduction on profits

and gains was granted by the legislature was neither stated nor

explained by the Finance Minister. The expression "legislative

intent" was used by the Finance Minister in the Bill to impose

Income Tax on the Petitioner by withdrawing tax holiday which was

vested in the Petitioner from an earlier point of time. Under the

garb of clarification or defining the term "undertaking", the

Finance Minister by amendment almost withdrew the benefit of tax

deduction substantially.

59.          The statement of the Finance Minister further stated

that the term "undertaking" has been a subject matter of

considerable dispute. The Finance Minister had clearly expressed

the legislative intent while presenting the Finance Bill 2008 in the




                            Page 135 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                CAV JUDGMENT




Parliament. "The legislative intent is clear from the speech of the

Finance Minister on the floor of the Parliament while moving the

motion for the consideration of Finance Bill 2008, he clearly stated

that sub-section allows 100 per cent tax exemption in respect of an

undertaking which begins commercial production or refining of

mineral oil for a period of seven consecutive assessment years"

"..........In my view, it is not correct to resolve these disputes by

debate in Parliament. We should allow the disputes to be resolved

in the normal course by the tax tribunals and the courts." "............I

may assure potential bidders for oil exploration blocks that the

benefit of Section 80-IB(9), as finally interpreted by the courts, will

be applicable to all exploration and production contracts, whether

obtained through nomination or bidding." From the facts of the

case in hand, it is clear that the judgment of ITAT was against the

revenue as the ITAT had found that each well/cluster of wells was a

separate undertaking entitled to seven years tax holiday. The

Revenue had challenged the decision of the ITAT before the High

Court and thereafter, they have a remedy before the Apex Court.

But, arbitrarily, the 100% tax deduction benefit could not be

withdrawn by the Finance Minister or the legislature by amending

Section 80-IB(9) of the Act retrospectively from an anterior date.

The amendment in such cases where already benefit had accrued

and vested in the assessee could not be taken away by giving

retrospective amendment to Section 80-IB(9) which is nothing but

a substantive provision inserted by amendment and it can only

operate prospectively and not retrospectively.




                              Page 136 of 139
         C/SCA/13134/2009                                 CAV JUDGMENT
60.            The Constitutional Bench of the Apex Court in Vatika

Township Private Limited (supra) has held in paragraph 34 that it

would also be pertinent to mention that assessment creates a

vested right and an assessee cannot be subjected to reassessment

unless a provision to that effect inserted by amendment is either

expressly or by necessary implication retrospective. (See Controller

of Estate Duty Gujarat-I v. M.A. Merchant [1989 Supp (1) SCC

499].

61.            The Apex Court in Gold Coin Health Food Pvt. Ltd.

(supra), held in paragraph 8 that even if the statute does contain a

statement to the effect that the amendment is clarificatory or

declaratory, that is not the end of the matter. The Court has to

analyse the nature of the amendment to come to a conclusion

whether it is in reality a clarificatory or declaratory provision.

Therefore, the date from which the amendment is made operative

does not conclusively decide the question. The Court has to

examine the scheme of the statute prior to the amendment and

subsequent to the amendment to determine whether amendment is

clarificatory or substantive. Same principle would apply where the

legislature had made a statement in the statute that it would apply

retrospectively.           We have examined the history of enactment for

mineral oil, the old and the amended provisions. We are satisfied

that the Explanation added to Section 80-IB(9) has levied income



                                     Page 137 of 139
       C/SCA/13134/2009                                       CAV JUDGMENT



tax on all wells/cluster of wells and all undertakings, except the

first one which commences commercial production for which still

seven years tax holiday is available.                The legislature or the

Parliament had by inserting the Explanation had widened the main

Section 80-IB(9) and imposed an altogether new tax by widening

the tax net which would be applicable for different periods

depending upon the date of starting commercial production would

be substantive change in the law with different tax liability. Such

substantive provision could only be construed prospective in

operation.

62.          For the reasons given above, we are of the considered

opinion that the amendment made in Section 80-IB(9) by adding an

Explanation was not clarificatory, declaratory, curative or made

"small repair" in the Act, but on the contrary takes away the

accrued and vested right of the Petitioner which had matured after

the judgments of ITAT, therefore, the Explanation added by

Finance (No.2) 2009 was a substantive law. We have no hesitation

to hold that the Explanation added to Section 80-IB(9) by Finance

Act (No.2) of 2009 is clearly unconstitutional, violative of Article 14

of the Constitution of India and is liable to be struck down.



63.          Therefore, for the reasons given above, we are of the

considered opinion that the Explanation added to Section 80-IB(9)

by    amendment          is   substantive     law    and   could   not      apply



                                   Page 138 of 139
            C/SCA/13134/2009                                        CAV JUDGMENT



retrospectively.              The   Explanation      added   to   Section   80-IB(9)

breaches the rule of law and is arbitrary being violative of Article

14 of the Constitution of India is struck down.



64.               In the result, both the writ petitions succeed and are

allowed. The Explanation to Section 80-IB(9) of the Act is held to be

ultra vires to Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Rule is made

absolute. Parties to bear their own costs.

                                                              (V.M.SAHAI, ACJ.)



                                                             (R.P.DHOLARIA, J.)


                  After this judgment was pronounced, Mr. Mihir Joshi,

learned Senior Counsel assisted by Mr. Nitin Mehta and Mr. Sudhir

Mehta, learned counsel appearing for respondent No.2 as well as

Mr. Shakeel A. Qureshi have prayed that the operation of this

judgment be stayed for a period of one month. We do not find any

justification to stay our judgment. The oral request made by

learned counsel for the respondents is rejected.




                                                              (V.M.SAHAI, ACJ.)



                                                             (R.P.DHOLARIA, J.)



Savariya




                                        Page 139 of 139
