               In   brief,   the   case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   on     18.10.11, 

complainant   Shri   Vijay   Kumar   lodged   the   missing   report   of   her   daughter 

(prosecutrix) aged about 7 years as she has been missing since 9.30 p.m. on 

17.10.11.   On this information, FIR was registered.   The complainant along 

with prosecutrix and other relatives came to the police station and alleged that 

the prosecutrix has been raped by the accused Sunil.  The prosecutrix was got 



SC No. 06/12                                                                     Page 1of 14
                                                 2

medically   examined   from   DDU   Hospital.     The   accused   was   arrested   from 

Dwarka   More   Metro   Station   and   he   was   medically   examined   from   DDU 

Hospital.  The statement of the prosecutrix was got recorded U/s 164 Cr.PC in 

which the prosecutrix has stated that accused has taken her to a lonely place 

and had raped her.  The accused has also threatened the prosecutrix with threat 

to her life.   
2.                After investigation of the case, the charge sheet has been filed U/s 

363/376/506 IPC. Charge U/s 363/376/506 IPC has been framed against the 

accused.  The accused has pleaded not guilty to the charge. 

3.                In   order   to   prove   its   case,   the   prosecution   has   examined   13 

witnesses. Statement of the accused U/s 313 Cr. P.C. was recorded in which he 

had denied the case of the prosecution.  The accused has not led any evidence 

in his defence.
4.                I have heard the Ld. APP for the state and Ld. counsel for the 

accused and perused the evidence on record.
                  PW1 ASI Mahendra Pal has proved the FIR as Ex. PW1/A and 

DD No. 15­A as Ex. PW1/C. 
                  PW2 Vijay Kumar has deposed that he had sent the prosecutrix 

aged about 8 years to the house of his in­laws since she was aged about 1/1½ 

years.     In the intervening night of 17/18.10.11, the prosecutrix went missing 

and he was informed about the missing by the maternal uncle of the prosecutrix 

at  about  10.00   pm  on   telephone.   He   went   to   the   house   of  his   in   laws   and 

searched   for   the   prosecutrix.   At   about   11.00,   pm   missing   report   of   the 



SC No. 06/12                                                                        Page 2of 14
                                                3

prosecutrix which is Ex.PW1/C was lodged in the police station.  On 18.10.11, 

at about 6 a.m. the prosecutrix returned home in perplexed condition and she 

was     half   naked.     On   repeated   asking,   the   prosecutrix   told   them   about   the 

incident. He immediately made a call to the police at No. 100 and there was no 

response. He took the prosecutrix at police station at about 7.00 am and the 

prosecutrix was got medically examined at  DDU  hospital. After the medical 

examination, they returned to the spot as told by the prosecutrix. Crime team 

had also reached at the spot. They, then went to the house of the accused but 

the accused was not found there.  They searched for the accused and when they 

reached at the Dwarka Mode near Metro Station the accused was apprehended 

on the pointing out of the prosecutrix. The accused was arrested vide memo 

Ex.PW2/A. The underwear and two pairs of Chappals out of which one pair of 

chappal was of the prosecutrix was also lying at the place of occurrence. The 

underwear of the prosecutrix was seized vide seizure memo Ex.PW2/E.  Two 

pairs   of   Chappals   were   seized   vide  seizure   memo  Ex.PW2/F.   The   witness 

identified the nicker of the prosecutrix as Ex.P1 and pair of Chappal of the 

prosecutrix as Ex.P2 and  another pair of gents Chappal as Ex.P3 which were 

lying at the spot.
                In cross examination, PW2 has deposed that he had visited the PS 

for   about 2­3   times.  He  do   not  know   the   accused   personally.   The   place   of 

occurrence is at a distance of about 400 meters from the house of his in­laws. 

There were thorny bushes at the spot and it was dark place. The accused was 

arrested at 5.00 pm. He has denied the suggestion that the accused has been 



SC No. 06/12                                                                       Page 3of 14
                                                 4

falsely  implicated   in   this   case   at  the   instance   of  his   brother   in   law   namely 

Surender.
                PW3, the prosecutrix aged about 8 years has deposed that at the 

time of incident, she was living in the house of her maternal uncles and her 

maternal grandfather and was studying in class 2nd.  On the day of incident, her 

maternal uncle Surender has sent her to bring curd by giving her Rs. 5/­ or Rs. 

10/­.   She went to the dairy outside the gali where the house of her maternal 

uncle is situated.  That dairy was closed at that time. When she was returning 

towards the house of her maternal uncle, the accused met her on the way.  She 

knew the accused and his name as she used to see him in the gali, where the 

house of her maternal uncle is situated and the accused had told his name to her 

on the date of incident.  He asked about the name of her parents.  He said that 

he would give her Rs. 100/­.   Thereafter, he told her to go.   When she was 

proceedings towards the house of her maternal uncle, he again called her and 

told her that he would give her a lolypop.   The accused took her to a place 

where there was thorns.  One boy and girl were sitting there and nobody else 

was present there at that time.  The accused again told her that he would give 

her   a   lolypop.       Thereafter   the   accused   removed   her   underwear   and   also 

removed his own underwear.  When she told him no to do so, the accused gave 

her fist blows in her stomach and also pulled her hair and also threatened her 

that if she wept or shouted, he would stab her with a knife.   Thereafter, the 

accused put his urinating part into her urinating part.   He felt severe pain in her 

urinating part and she had started bleeding and her hands and legs were got 



SC No. 06/12                                                                         Page 4of 14
                                                 5

smeared with blood.  She became semi conscious.  She was feeling pain due to 

pricking of thorns of her body also.   When she got up, she saw the accused 

sitting beside her and she was also feeling cold.  The accused had put his shirt 

on her body.  When she tried to weep, the accused gave her fist blows.  In the 

morning, she went back to her house on her own.  She told the whole incident 

to   her   mother.     She   was   taken   to   the   police   station.     Police   recorded   her 

statement.  She was taken to the hospital.  Her clothes were taken by the doctor. 

Her statement was recorded in the court which is Ex. PW3/A.   She has not 

identified the nicker but has identified her pair of chappal as Ex. P2. 

                In cross examination, PW3 has deposed that the accused is the 

friend of her maternal uncle namely Surender.   She do not know where the 

accused was residing and the she do not know the accused prior to the alleged 

incident.   There are so many houses in the gali of her residence.   She do not 

remember   the   colour   of   the   clothes   which   she   was   wearing   at   the   time   of 

incident.  However, she was wearing nicker and T. Shirt.  The place where the 

accused had taken her falls in another gali.  When she was crying, the accused 

had threatened to kill her with knife.   She has denied the suggestion that she 

was tutored by her parents as well as her maternal uncle who had enmity with 

the accused for the last several years.       
                PW4 ASI Ajit Singh is the Incharge of the crime team and has 

visited the spot on 18.10.11.  PW4 has deposed that at the spot, an underwear 

of a girl and two pairs of chappal were found and all these were seized by the 

IO.  He proved the crime team report as Ex.   PW4/A.

SC No. 06/12                                                                         Page 5of 14
                                                6

                PW6   Bahadur   Singh   has   deposed   that   the   prosecutrix   is   the 

daughter of his daughter. She has been residing along with them since the time 

when she was one year old. In the intervening night of 17/18.10.11, at about 

9.30 pm, he gave an amount of Rs.10/­ to the prosecutrix to bring curd. After 

about 15 minutes, when the prosecutrix did not return, he went for the search of 

the prosecutrix. On 18.10.11 at about 6.00 am, the prosecutrix returned and 

there was no   single cloth on her body. The prosecutrix told them about the 

incident. The prosecutrix was taken to the police station and was got medically 

examined   from   DDU   Hospital.   Police   officials   inspected   the   place   of 

occurrence   and   prepared   the   site   plan   and   has   also   seized   the   clothes   and 

Chappals lying at the spot. The accused was apprehended near Dwarka more 

Metro Station. He has identified the case property. 

                PW7   H.C.   Rattan   Lal   is   the   MHCM   and   he   has   proved   the 

relevant entry in the register No. 19 regarding the deposit of pulandas with him 

and handing over the same for depositing in the FSL Rohini as Ex. PW7/A. 

                PW8 Dixit Kumar, Additional Teacher, Supreme Model School, 

Uttam Nagar has deposed that the prosecutrix was admitted in their school on 

22.7.10 and her date of birth is 4.6.04.  He has proved the school record as Ex. 

PW8/A, copy of affidavit as Ex. PW8/C and certificate as to the date of birth of 

the prosecutrix as Ex. PW8/D. 
                PW9   Lady   Ct.   Suchitra   has   deposed   that   she   had   taken   the 

prosecutrix for medical examination to the DDU Hospital. 

                PW10   Dr.   Deepshikha   has   deposed   that   on   18.10.11,she   had 



SC No. 06/12                                                                       Page 6of 14
                                            7

examined   the   prosecutrix   and   has   referred   the   patient   to   Gynae/Surgery 

Department and has proved the MLC of the prosecutrix as Ex. PW10/A .  On 

18.10.11, the prosecutrix was examined by Dr. Nakul who has left the services 

of the hospital.  As per local examination of the prosecutrix, there was redness 

around the hymen and the hymen torn, no active bleeding or injury present. The 

MLC   prepared   by   Dr.   Nakul   Ex.   PW10/B.   The   accused   Sunil   Kumar   was 

examined by Dr. Alok who has left the services of the hospital and has proved 

the MLC of the accused as Ex. PW10/C.  As per MLC, there is nothing  to 

suggest that the accused cannot perform sexual act.

               PW10 H.C. Anil Kumar is the photographer and has taken the 

photographs of the spot  and has proved the photographs as Ex. PW10/A to Ex. 

PW10/F and its negative as Ex. PW10/1 to Ex. PW10/6. 

               PW11 Shri Rajinder Kumar, Ld. MM has proved the statement of 

the prosecutrix recorded U/s 164 Cr.PC as Ex. PW3/A and his certificate as Ex 

PW11/A.
               PW13 ASI Sushma is the Investigating Officer of the case and 

she has deposed that on 18.10.11, the investigation of the case was marked to 

her and they tried to trace the prosecutrix. In the same evening, the parents of 

the prosecutrix informed that the girl had been traced.     The prosecutrix was 

brought to the PS and was sent to hospital for medical examination. She along 

with other staff left for the spot.  Crime team was also called at the spot. One 

underwear of green and Mehroon colour of prosecutrix was found lying at the 

spot which was seized vide memo Ex. PW2/A.  One pair of chappal belonging 



SC No. 06/12                                                                Page 7of 14
                                             8

to the prosecutrix and one pair of chappal belonging to the accused were also 

recovered from the spot and same were seized vide memo Ex. PW2/F. The 

prosecutrix was also brought at the spot by Ct. Suchitra and who had handed 

over   me   the   sealed   exhibits   which   she  seized   vide  memo   Ex.   PW9/A.   She 

prepared site plan Ex. PW13/A.  The accused was apprehended at the instance 

of the prosecutrix near Dwarka More, Metro Station.  The accused was arrested 

vide memo Ex. PW2/A.   The accused was taken to hospital for his medical 

examination. The statement of the prosecutrix was got recorded U/s 164 Cr.PC. 

She has identified the case property.
               In cross examination by Ld. defence counsel, PW13 has deposed 

that at about 3­4 p.m. the parents of the prosecutrix has informed her that the 

girl had been traced. She do not remember at what time they reached at the 

spot. They remained at the spot for half an hour and they left the spot at about 

5.30 p.m. All the writing work was done by her at the spot.  The accused was 

apprehended at about 6.30 p.m. 

               PW5 H.C. Parveen Kumar and PW12 Ct. Nawal has joined the 

investigation with PW13 and has supported the testimony of PW13. 

5.             Ld. Counsel for the accused has argued that the accused has been 

falsely implicated in the case.  The prosecutrix is a tutored witness as she has 

deposed   under   the   influence   of   her   maternal   uncle   namely   Surender   as 

Surender has enmity with the accused.  The testimony of the prosecutrix is not 

reliable. From the evidence on record, the prosecution has failed to prove its 

case against the accused.   On these grounds, it is prayed that the accused be 



SC No. 06/12                                                                  Page 8of 14
                                                  9

acquitted.  
                 On the other hand, Ld. APP has argued that  from the evidence on 

record, the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt against the 

accused. 
6.               PW2 is the father of the prosecutrix and has deposed that the age 

of   the   prosecutrix   was   about   8   years   at   the   time   of   incident.     PW3,   the 

prosecutrix has deposed her age as 8 years, when she was examined in the court 

on 30.10.12.  PW8 has proved the school record and has deposed that as per the 

school record, the date of birth of the prosecutrix is 4.6.04.  The date of alleged 

commission of offence is 17.10.11.  After considering this date of birth, the age 

of the prosecutrix come to about 7 years four months on 17.10.11. 

                 Ld. counsel for the accused has argued that the evidence of the 

prosecutrix   is   not   reliable   due   to   her   tender   age   and   being   tutored   by   her 

maternal uncle namely Surender.   
                 It has been observed by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in 2012 VI 

AD (Delhi) 170 State Vs. Jai Hind :­

                31. "   The   law   with   regard   to   the   testimony   of   child  
        witnesses   can   be   summed   up   thus.     The   conviction   on   the   sole  
        evidence of a child witness is permissible if such witness is found  
        competent   to   testify   and   the   court   after   careful   scrutiny   of   its  
        evidence is convinced about the quality and reliability of the same.  
        (Ratansinh Dalsukhbai Nayak Vs. State of Gujrat 2004 (1) SCC 64)  
        It should be accepted albeit with circumspection.  This decision had  
        accepted   the   observations   Dattu   Ramrao   Sakhare   Vs.   State   of  
        Maharashtra (1997) 5 SCC 341) where it was held that:
                        "A child witness if found competent to depose to the  
        facts   and   reliable   one   such   evidence   could   be   the   basis   of  

SC No. 06/12                                                                          Page 9of 14
                                                  10

      conviction.  In other words even in the absence of oath the evidence  
      of   a   child   witness   can   be   considered   under   Section   118   of   the  
      Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to understand the  
      questions and able to give rational answers thereof.  The evidence  
      of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the  
      circumstances of each case.   The only precaution which the court  
      should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness  
      is that the witness must be a reliable one and his/her demeanor  
      must be like any other competent witness and there is no likelihood  
      of being tutored."
      In Pacchi Vs. State of U.P AIR 1998 SC 2726 it was held:
                        "It   is   not   the   law   that   if   a   witness   is   a   child   his  
      evidence shall be rejected, even if it is found reliable.   The law is  
      that evidence if a child witness must be evaluated more carefully  
      and with greater circumspection because a child is susceptible to  
      be swayed by what others tell them and this a child witness is easy  
      prey to tutoring."
      It has been observed by Hon'ble High Court of Delhi in 2013 VI AD  
      (Delhi) 743:­
                      "In view of the legal proposition enunciated above, a  
      child   witness   is   a   competent  witness   provided   statement  of   such  
      witness is reliable and truthful.  A conviction can be based on the  
      sole testimony of a child witness. The only precaution, which the  
      Court   should   bear   in   mind   while   assessing   evidence   of   a   child  
      witness is that witness must be a reliable one and his demeanour  
      must be like any other competent witness and that there exists no  
      likelihood of being tutored.   There is no rule of practice that in  
      every  case  evidence  of such  a  witness  be corroborated  by  other  
      evidence before a conviction could be allowed to stand, but as a  
      rule   of     prudence,   court   always   finds   it   desirable   to   seek  
      corroboration to such evidence from other reliable evidence placed  
      on record."  

SC No. 06/12                                                                             Page 10of 14
                                              11



               PW3 has supported the case of the prosecution. PW3 has deposed 

that when she was proceedings towards the house of her maternal uncle, the 

accused met her on the way and told her that he would give her a lolypop and 

took her to a place where there were thorns. The accused gave her fist blows on 

her stomach and also pulled her hair and also threatened her that if she wept or 

shouted, he would stab her with a knife.  The accused removed her underwear 

and also removed his own underwear. The accused put his urinating part into 

her urinating part.  The testimony of PW3 is also corroborated by her MLC Ex. 

PW10/B which shows redness around her hymen and her hymen torn.  

7.             PW2   has   deposed   that   after   medical   examination   of   the 

prosecutrix, they returned to the spot as told by the prosecutrix.  At the spot, the 

underwear of the prosecutrix which is Ex. P1, pair of chappal of the prosecutrix 

which is Ex. P2 and another pair of gents chappal which is Ex. P3 were lying at 

the spot. 
               PW4 ASI Ajit Singh who is the Incharge of the Crime Team and 

PW13   ASI   Sushma   who   is   the   Investigating   Officer   of   the   case   has   also 

corroborated the testimony of PW2 that these articles were found lying at the 

spot.  The site plan of the spot of incident has been proved as Ex. PW13/A. 

               From the evidence on record, the prosecution has proved the spot 

of incident i.e. Vacant Plot, Village Nawada, Uttam Nagar. 

8.             The   defence   of   the   accused   that   the   accused   has   been   falsely 

implicated in the case as the maternal uncle namely Surender of the prosecutrix 



SC No. 06/12                                                                    Page 11of 14
                                              12

has an enmity with the accused.  PW2, PW3 and PW6 has been cross­examined 

by the accused, but no such material has been come on record to prove the 

defence   of the  accused.     The   accused  has   also   not  led   any  evidence  in   his 

defence. 
               Ld. counsel for the accused has pointed out the contradictions in 

the testimony of the prosecution witnesses as to the time when the accused was 

apprehended and as to the time, when the prosecutrix was produced in the PS, 

but in my view these contradictions are minor in nature and they do not affect 

the case of the prosecution on merits.  
9.             It has been observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in AIR 2004 

Supreme Court 1497 as follows:
10.            In view of the above discussions, the prosecution has proved its 

case beyond reasonable doubt against the accused that he has kidnapped the 

prosecutrix and has committed rape upon her and has threatened her with threat 

to her life.  Accordingly, the accused is convicted for the offences punishable 

SC No. 06/12                                                                     Page 13of 14
                                     14

U/s 363/376/506 IPC. 