1.            The above named two accused alongwith a third
accused   namely     Mohan    had   been   chargesheeted    by   the
prosecution for having committed the offences punishable u/s.
376(2)(g)/452/506/34 IPC.
2.            The prosecution case, in brief, is that the prosecutrix
namely 'P' (real name withheld in order to conceal her identity)
was initially married to one Munna and she gave birth to two




SC No.6/13.                                             Page 1 of 13
 daughters from the loin of Munna. After the death of Munna, she
got married to Mukesh about ten months before the date of
incident. After marriage with Mukesh, she was residing alongwith
her mother at Model Town, Karnal, but about ten years before the
date of incident, her husband Mukesh brought her to Murgi Farm
House near Cremation Ground at Surakhpur Road and they started
residing there as husband and wife. The prosecutrix told her
husband that she cannot reside in the farm house as several
persons keep on visiting the farm house but her husband
compelled her to stay there. Her two daughters were also with her.
Accused Mohan and accused Sanjay and two more persons namely
Shyam Sunder and Suresh were also residing in the farm house.
They used to consume liquor alongwith her husband.                 On
09.7.2012 at about 10 p.m. her husband and the aforesaid four
persons were consuming liquor.      Her husband came to her and
told her that he has taken money from these persons and she has
to sleep with them. She became angry and told her husband that
she would not spend night with any stranger. On this, her husband
beat her and left the room. Thereafter Sanjay @ Brij Mohan came
inside the room and raped her. Then Suresh, Shyam Sunder and
Mohan also entered the room and raped her one after another.
She raised alarm but all of them threatened her that in case she
narrated the incident to any person, they will kill her as well as her
two daughters. On account of fear, she did not narrate the incident
to any person. She then narrated the incident to her brother-in-law
(Jeth) namely Mohan on 11.7.2012 and Mohan brought her to the
police station where her statement was recorded.
3.            On the basis of the statement of the prosecutrix, FIR




SC No.6/13.                                              Page 2 of 13
 was registered and the investigation was entrusted to WSI Asha.
She took the prosecutrix to RTRM Hospital, Jaffarpur, and got her
medically examined vide MLC No.2900/12. Exhibits handed over
by the doctor were seized. She prepared the site plan of the spot
of incident at the instance of the prosecutrix. Accused Sanjay,
Suresh, Mohan and Shyam Sunder were arrested on 12.7.2012 and
all of them were got medically examined at RTRM Hospital.
However, Mukesh (husband of prosecutrix) could not be found.
Mukesh was apprehended on 16.7.2012 and his ossification test
reveals his age to be 16 - 18 years and hence, being juvenile, was
produced before the Juvenile Justice Board. It further transpires
that accused Shyam Sunder also was found to be less than 18
years of age at the time of commission of offence. Thus, being a
juvenile, was produced before the concerned Juvenile Justice
Board.
4.            After the completion of the investigation, Charge
Sheet was prepared and submitted to the concerned Magistrate,
who committed the case to the court of Sessions for trial. After
committal of the case to the court of Sessions, charges u/s.450 r/w
section 34 IPC, u/s.376(2)(g) IPC and u/s.506/34 IPC were framed
against accused Sanjay, Suresh Kumar and Mohan. All the three
accused pleaded not guilty to the charges framed against them
and accordingly trial was held.
5.            During the course of trial, accused Mohan filed an
application u/s.7A of Juvenile Justice Board seeking to declare him
a juvenile. Application was allowed vide order dated 22.3.2013 and
he was directed to be produced before the concerned Juvenile




SC No.6/13.                                           Page 3 of 13
 Justice Board.
6.            Prosecution has examined 14 witnesses to prove the
charges against the accused. The accused were examined u/s.313
Cr.PC on 14.8.2013. When the case was taken up for recording the
statement u/s.313 Cr.PC of accused Sanjay and Suresh, it was
found that nothing incriminating has come in the evidence of the
prosecution regarding accused Sanjay and therefore no necessity
was felt for recording his statement u/s.313 Cr.PC.
7.            Statement of accused Suresh u/s.313 Cr.PC was
recorded on 14.8.2013 wherein he denied all the incriminating
facts and circumstances put to him and claimed false implication.
8.            I have heard Ld. APP for State, Ld. Counsels for the
accused and have perused the entire material on record.
9.            Prosecutrix has been examined as PW3. She did not
remember the exact month in which the incident took place.
According to her, it was 9th day of the month and the incident took
place about six months before she was examined in the court.
During those days, her husband was working in a Poultry Farm at
Surakhpur road and they were residing in a room in the Poultry
Farm. She deposed that on the date of incident at about 10 p.m.
she had verbal altercation with her husband, pursuant to which
she left the room and reached bus stand for going to her parental
house at Karnal. However, her husband alongwith one more
person namely Sandeep who also works in the same Poultry Farm
came to bus stand and brought her back. On reaching their room,




SC No.6/13.                                           Page 4 of 13
 she found one person Mohan alongwith two other persons whose
name she did not know, present in their room taking liquor and
having food. Her husband and Sandeep also joined them in taking
liquor. Thereafter her husband asked them to give him Rs.2,500/-
and they could sleep with her for the night. They did not give any
money to her husband but made him to consume excessive liquor,
consequent to which he became intoxicated and fell down
unconscious. Thereafter three out of those four persons committed
rape upon her. However, one of those persons namely Sanjay left
after taking liquor and he did not do anything to her. She pointed
out towards accused Sanjay present in court saying that he did not
commit rape upon her. She pointed out towards accused Suresh
and accused Mohan present in court that day (accused Mohan had
not been declared JCL by that time) stating that they had
committed rape upon her. She further deposed that accused
Suresh and accused Mohan left their room after about half an hour
after committing rape upon her. In the morning when her husband
regained his senses, she apprised him about the incident and
asked him how he allowed his friends to do such a thing to her.
She decided to go to her parental house at Karnal and her
husband expressed his willingness to accompany her to Karnal but
they were not having any money and asked Sandeep to lend them
some money who told them to wait for the farm owner and he only
would pay money to them. The farm owner came in the evening
and they demanded money from him. He asked them why they
were adamant in leaving the farm house in such a hurry and they
narrated the incident to him. He told them to stay for the night in
the farm and leave in the morning. Meanwhile, he called the
police. Police officials came to the farm and recorded her




SC No.6/13.                                           Page 5 of 13
 statement Ex.PW3/A. The three accused namely Sanjay, Suresh
and Mohan were present in the farm at that time. The police
officials took her as well as three accused to the police station.
From the police station, she was taken to hospital and got
medically examined and then she was brought back to her room
by her brother-in-law (Jeth).
10.           The prosecutrix (PW3) was declared hostile by Ld. APP
by seeking permission on few points and in the cross examination
also conducted by Ld. APP, she denied that accused Sanjay had
also committed rape upon her or that she had mentioned about
the same in her statement to the police. She also denied that the
accused had extended any threat to her that they would kill her
and her daughters if she did not subject herself to their lust.
11.           In the cross examination conducted on behalf of
accused Mohan, she was confronted with her statement Ex.PW3/A
recorded by the IO wherein she had not stated that her husband
had demanded Rs.2,500/- from the accused;           that after verbal
altercation with her husband, she had gone to bus stand to go to
her parental home at Karnal and soon thereafter her husband
alongwith Sandeep came there and brought her back to the farm;
that after taking liquor, her husband became intoxicated and lost
his consciousness and that the next day they had asked Sandeep
to give them some money which he refused to give and in the
evening, she narrated the incident to the farm owner who called
the police. She deposed further that her husband was not present
in the farm when the police officials reached there as he had run
away. Her brother-in-law (Jeth) namely Mohan was with her during




SC No.6/13.                                              Page 6 of 13
 the night. He had heard about the incident from somebody and
had come to the farm one hour before arrival of the police officials.
He also accompanied her to the police station. She also deposed
that her husband Mukesh had not demanded Rs.2,500/- from the
accused in her presence. In the cross examination conducted on
behalf of accused Suresh, she deposed that there is a wooden bed
in their room which occupied very less space and major portion of
the room was vacant. Her two daughters were sleeping on the
bed. She had raised alarm when she was being sexually assaulted
by the accused but nobody has come to her rescue as none was
present in the farm. She also deposed that after she had been
raped, she could not go out of the farm as the gate had been
locked from outside and its boundary wall is very high. She had
told her husband that she would not oblige the accused and would
not subject herself to their lust but he insisted that she would have
to do it. She resisted acts of the accused pleading with them not to
indulge in such act as she was sick but they did not relent and
committed rape upon her. She narrated the incident to the
employees of the farm next morning, whom she could identify if
shown to her. Those employees scolded her husband as to why he
had permitted such a thing to happen. She also deposed that the
brother of the farm owner had come to the farm at 3 p.m. on the
next day of the incident and she narrated the incident to him and
requested him to give her some money so that she could leave the
farm as she apprehends danger to her life. She also deposed that
the police officials had prepared site plan of the spot of incident in
her presence.
12.           Before scrutinizing the evidence of the prosecution, it




SC No.6/13.                                              Page 7 of 13
 may be noted here that in cases involving the offence of rape, the
testimony of prosecutrix is the most vital and material piece of
evidence. Her statement if found to be worthy of credence and
reliable, requires no corroboration and court may convict the
accused on her sole testimony. A prosecutrix of sex offence cannot
be put on par with an accomplice. She is in fact a victim of crime.
The Evidence Act nowhere says that her evidence cannot be
accepted unless it is corroborated in material particulars. She is
undoubtable and competent witness under section 118 and her
evidence must receive the same weight as is attached to an
injured in cases of physical violence. The same degree of care and
caution must attach in the evaluation of her evidence as in the
case of an injured complainant or witness and no more. In case
involving sexual harassment, molestation etc. the court is duty
bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity.            Minor
contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a
prosecutrix should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise
reliable prosecution case.    While evaluating evidence, the court
must remain alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self
respecting woman would come forward in a court just to make a
humiliating statement against her honour. At the same time, it is
also settled position that if for some reason the court is hesitant to
place implicit reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix, it may
look for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony short
of corroboration required in case of an accomplice. If the court of
facts finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix at its
face value, it may search for evidence, direct or circumstantial,
which would lend assurance to her testimony. (See- State of
Maharashtra vs. Chandraprakash Kewalchand Jain, AIR




SC No.6/13.                                               Page 8 of 13
 1990 SC 658, State of U.P. vs. Pappu @ Yunus and anr., AIR
2005 SC 1248, State of Punjab vs. Gurmit Singh and Ors.,
AIR 1966 SC 1393).
13.           In the instant case, it is manifest that the prosecutrix
in her testimony has totally exculpated the accused Sanjay. She
has specifically stated that accused Sanjay had left her room after
taking liquor and he did not join the other accused in committing
rape upon her. She has maintained the same line during her cross
examination conducted by the Ld. APP after declaring her hostile.
It is for this reason that accused Sanjay was not examined u/s.313
Cr.PC as nothing incriminating against him has come in the
evidence of the prosecutrix or any other prosecution witnesses.
Therefore, accused Sanjay is liable to be acquitted straightway.
14.           This leave us to deal regarding accused Suresh Kumar.
Even though there appear some minor discrepancies in the
testimony of the prosecutrix recorded in the court and her
statement Ex.PW3/A recorded by the police officials, with which
she was confronted during the course of her deposition, still I feel
that she has been consistently stating that her husband asked her
to sleep with accused Suresh and other persons, who were taking
liquor and thereafter accused Suresh and other persons raped her.
In her statement to the police Ex.PW3/A, she has alleged that
accused Sanjay also raped her but she has candidly deposed
before the court that accused Sanjay did not commit any illegal
act with her and her had left after consuming liquor. This
demonstrates that the prosecutrix has given a truthful version of
the incident in the court or otherwise, there was no reason for her




SC No.6/13.                                              Page 9 of 13
 to exculpate accused Sanjay.
15.           It is to be noted that the husband of the prosecutrix
namely Mukesh is also named in the FIR to be an offender but
since he turned out to be a JCL, enquiry against him is being held
by concerned Juvenile Justice Board.
16.           It has also come during the evidence of the prosecutrix
as well as the IO (PW14) and PW14 that the brother in law (Jeth) of
the prosecutrix was also present at the farm when police officials
reached there and recorded statement of the prosecutrix. It has
also come in the evidence of these three witnesses that brother-in-
law of the prosecutrix namely Mohan had accompanied her to the
police station and participated in further investigation of the case
alongwith police officials.
17.           There is nothing on record to suggest why the
prosecutrix or her brother-in-law namely Mohan would fabricate a
false story to implicate the accused on false charges of rape and
more particularly Mukesh, who is husband of the prosecutrix and
brother of Mohan.
18.           Nothing adverse to the prosecution case has come out
in the cross examination of the prosecutrix. She has explained the
circumstances in which accused Suresh and other persons had
come to her room after liquor session and raped her one after
another. She has deposed that she pleaded for mercy and
requested the accused not to indulge in any such act but they did
not relent and raped her. She could not come out of the farm after




SC No.6/13.                                            Page 10 of 13
 the incident of rape as the gate of the farm had been kept locked
from outside and its boundary wall was very high. It has also come
in the evidence that she has raised alarm when she was being
sexually assaulted by the accused but nobody came to her rescue
as nobody was present in the farm at that time.
19.           The discrepancies between the testimony of the
prosecutrix and her statement to the police Ex.PW3/A are minor
and immaterial and in my opinion, do not have any impact upon
the core of the prosecution case which stands fully established as
against Suresh Kumar. Here it would be useful to refer to the
judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Raj Kumar Singh
alias Raju alias Batya vs. State of Rajasthan, (2013) 5 SCC
722, has held as under :
20.           It has been seen that howsoever honest and truthful
witness may be, normal discrepancies always occur in his
deposition. These discrepancies are due to the normal errors of
observations, normal errors of memory, due to lapse of time, due
to mental disposition such as shock, honour and trauma at the
time of occurrence and the like. Material discrepancies are those
which are not normal and not expected of a normal person.
21.           In the instant case, as noted by me herein above also,
I do not find any material discrepancy in the testimony of the
prosecutrix. She seems to be a truthful witness and her deposition
inspires confidence in all respects. I find nothing on record to
persuade me not to believe her testimony.
22.           It may also be noted here that Sh. Mohan, brother in
law of the prosecutrix, could not be examined as a witness as he
had left Delhi in the meanwhile and his whereabouts could not be
found by the Investigating Officer despite efforts.           A separate
statement of ASI Suresh (IO) was recorded in this case on
31.5.2013. Therefore, nothing adverse can be read against the
prosecution for non examination of Mohan as a witness.
 23.           In view of the aforesaid discussion, accused Suresh
Kumar is liable to be convicted for the offence punishable u/s.
376(2)(g) r/w section 34 IPC. However, it is apparent from the
evidence on record that accused Suresh Kumar and his associates
has not trespassed into the room of the prosecutrix. They had
entered the room with the permission of husband of the
prosecutrix and were consuming liquor alongwith him. It is after
consuming of liquor that carnal instincts aroused in them and they
thought of satisfying their carnal lust upon the prosecutrix, which
was approved by the husband of the prosecutrix. The prosecutrix
has further deposed in her testimony that none of the accused
issued any threat to her. Therefore there is no evidence on record
supporting the charge u/s.450 read with section 34 IPC and u/s.
506 read with section 34 IPC against accused Suresh Kumar.
24.           Resultantly, accused Sanjay is hereby acquitted of all
the charges. Accused Suresh Kumar is acquitted of the charges
u/s.450/34 IPC and u/s.506 IPC. However, he is hereby convicted
for the offences punishable u/s.376(2)(g) IPC.
