     1.                           Brief facts of the prosecution case are that on 7.11.12 

          PW­3 Badami Devi came to the PS Prashant Vihar and told to the 

          duty officer that on 7.11.12 when she had gone for her work as she 


State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 5  of  21
           was  working  as maid  servant and  came  back  at about  3 pm  she 

          found her daughter R (her name withheld) aged about 11 years was 

          kidnapped by one Batla who is tenant in the same house in which 

          she is a tenant. Duty officer registered the present case FIR  u/s 363 

          IPC on her complaint and thereafter investigation was assigned to SI 

          Arvind.  On 9.11.12  prosecutrix R returned to her home herself and 

          her parents brought her to the PS where subsequent IO SI Suman 

          Kumari recorded her statement and got her medically examined in 

          BSA   Hospital   vide   MLC   169/12.     She   also   arrested   the   accused 

          Rajesh   @   Batla   on   the   identification   of   R   on   9.11.12.     She   got 

          recorded the statement of prosecutrix R u/s 164 Cr.P.C.,  on 9.11.12. 

          On   10.11.12   age   certificate   regarding   the   age   of   prosecutrix   was 

          collected from her school, sent exhibits for DNA examination to FSL 

          through Ct. Balraj.   She also got conducted the age determination 

          test of accused for determination of his age and accused was found 

          20 years of age.  Finally after completion of investigation filed charge 

          sheet u/s 363/376/342 IPC and filed in the court.

     2.                        After   compliance   of   Section   207  Cr.P.C.,   Ld.   MM   has 

          committed   the   case   to   the   court   of   Sessions   which   was   later   on 

          assigned to this court.   
State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 6  of  21
      3.                        Vide order dt. 28.01.13, charge u/s 363/342/376 (2)(f) IPC
IPC was framed against the accused to which accused pleaded not 

          guilty and claimed trial.  
     4.                         The prosecution has examined as many as 16 witnesses 

          i.e PW­1 Dr. Rajib Baishya who medically examined the accused. 

          PW­2   R   is   the   prosecutrix.   PW­3   Badami   Devi   is   the   mother   of 

          prosecutrix.   PW­4   Dr.   Roopal   Ilwadi   who   medically   examined   the 

          prosecutrix.   PW­5 Ms.Daisy Grover is the Principal of MC Primary 

          School,   Sector­13,   Rohini   who   proved   the   admission   record   of 

          prosecutrix.  PW­6 Ct. Brahm Solanki is the MHC(M) and is a formal 

          witness.     PW­7 Dr. Sunil Kakkar is the Radiologist who examined 

          accused.     PW­8   HC   Ranjit   Kishore   is   the   duty   officer.     PW­9   Ct. 

          Sachin Kumar is a formal witness who joined investigation with ASI 

          Suman.   PW­10 W/Ct. Balkesh joined the investigation with IO ASI 

          Suman and is a formal witness.  PW­11 Shri Sushil Anuj Tyagi, MM 

          Rohini   proved   the   proceedings   u/s   164  Cr.P.C.    PW­12   SI   Arvind 

          Kumar conducted the initial proceedings of the case.   PW­13 W/SI 

          Suman is the IO of the case.   PW­14 Dr. Meet Kumar examined the 

          accused. 
     5.                        The   prosecution   proved   the   MLC   of   accused   as 

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 7  of  21
           ExPW1/A,   statement   u/s   164   Cr.P.C.   as   ExPW2/A,   statement   of 

          Badami   Devi   as     ExPW3/A,     MLC   of   prosecutrix   as   ExPW4/A, 

          admission   register   as   ExPW5/A,   copy   of   admission   form   as 

          ExPW5/B, affidavit as ExPW5/C, certificate mentioning the age of 

          prosecutrix   as   ExPW5/D,   report   of   PW­7   Dr.   Sunil   Kakkar   as 

          ExPW7/A,   copy   of   FIR   as   ExPW8/A,   endorsement   on   rukka   as 

          ExPW8/B,   DD   register   as   ExPW8/C,   arrest   memo   of   accused   as 

          ExPW9/A,   his   personal   search   as   ExPW9/B,   seizure   memo   of 

          pulunda   handed   over   by   doctor   as   ExPW9/C,   seizure   memo   of 

          pulunda handed over by doctor as ExPW10/A, request to supply the 

          copy of proceedings u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as ExPW11/A, application for 

          conducting   proceedings   u/s   164   Cr.P.C.   as   ExPW13/A,   copy   of 

          proceedings u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as ExPW13/B, FSL report as ExPW13/C

     6.                        Statement of accused  Rajesh @ Batla was recorded u/s 

          313 Cr.P.C. but he denied all the incriminating evidence put to him 

          and stated that he is innocent and had not enticed the prosecutrix 

          and she voluntarily gone with him and established physical relation 

          with him with her own consent as she loved him but later on under 

          pressure   of  her   parents  she   deposed   falsely  against   him   and  her 

          parents demanded Rs.60,000/­ from him and since he could not pay 

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 8  of  21
           the said amount this case was registered against him.

     7.                        I   have   heard   arguments   and   gone   through   the   record. 

          The accused has been charged for kidnapping, which is defined in 

          Section 361 IPC as under :­­ 

                                361. Kidnapping from lawful guardianship.--Whoever takes or 
                                entices any minor under 1[sixteen] years of age if a male, or under 
                                2[eighteen] years of age if a female, or any person of unsound 
                                mind, out of the keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor or 
                                person of unsound mind, without the consent of such guardian, is 
                                said to kidnap such minor or person from lawful guardianship. 

           Further   accused   has   been   charged   for   rape   which   is 
punishable u/s. 376 IPC and rape has been defined in Section 375 IPC as 
under:­
                     375. Rape.--A man is said to commit "rape" who, except in the case 
                     hereinafter   excepted,   has   sexual   intercourse   with   a   woman   under 
                     circumstances falling under any of the six following descriptions:--
                     First.--Against her will.
                     Secondly.--Without her consent.
                     Thirdly.--With  her consent, when  her consent has been  obtained  by 
                     putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of death or 
                     of hurt.
                     Fourthly.--With her consent, when the man knows that he is not her 
                     husband, and that her consent is given because she believes that he is 
                     another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married.
                     Fifthly.--  With her consent, when, at the time of giving such consent, 
                     by reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication or the administration 
                     by him personally or through another of any stupefying or unwholesome 
                     substance, she is unable to understand the nature and consequences 
                     of that to which she gives consent. 

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 9  of  21
                      Sixthly.--  With or without her consent, when she is under sixteen years 
                     of age.

     8.                        The   consent   of   the   female   is  immaterial  for   offence   of 

          kidnapping punishable u/s 363 IPC if female is less than 18 years of 

          age   and   in   case   of   rape,   if   female   is   less   than   16   years   of   age. 

          Whereas   offence   u/s   376   (2)(f)   is   made   out   only   when   the 

          prosecutrix is less than 12 years of age. Hence in this case age of 

          the prosecutrix is very material.  
     9.                        As   per   prosecution   the   prosecutrix   'R'was   born   on 

          10.4.2000.  To prove the same, the prosecution has relied upon the 

          school record of the prosecutrix which is proved by PW­5 Ms. Daisy 

          Grover­Principal,   MC   Primary   School.     PW­5   deposed   that 

          prosecutrix was admitted in their school in first class in the year 2007 

          vide admission no.3131 on 25.08.2007 and as per admission register 

          her   date   of   birth   is   10.04.2000.     She   proved   the   register   as 

          ExPW5/A.     She  has  also  deposed  that  her mother  at  the  time  of 

          admission has filled the admission form ExPW5/B and given affidavit 

          ExPW5/C   regarding   date   of   birth   of   the   prosecutrix.   In   cross 

          examination   PW­5   has   admitted   that   no   certificate   issued   by   any 

          authority or municipal corporation or panchayat was furnished at the 

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 10  of  21
           time of admission of prosecutrix.  PW­5 voluntarily stated that there 

          are instructions from the Education Deptt. to accept the date of birth 

          of student as told by the parents of student at the time of admission 

          of student and not to question the same.
     10.                       I  do  not find  any reason  to  disbelieve  the  testimony of 

          PW­5. The entry of school record was made way back in the year 

          2007 and date of birth of the prosecutrix is mentioned as 10.4.2000. 

          Hence,   there   is   no   reason   to   dispute   the   date   of   birth   in   school 

          record.
     11.                       As per Section 12 of Juvenile Justice Board at the time of 

          determining the age of a person following information is to be seen.  

          Rule 12 (3) of Juvenile  Justice (Care & Protection of   Children) Rules, 

          2009 provide procedure for determination of age, which is reproduced as 

          under :­­

                            12.Procedure to be followed in determination of Age.

                            (1).....
                            (2).....
                            (3)   In every case concerning a child or juvenile in 
                            conflict with law, the age determination inquiry shall 
                            be conducted by the court or the Board or, as the 
                            case may be, the Committee by seeking evidence by 
                            obtaining - 
                                 (a)

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 11  of  21
                                       i. the date of birth certificate from the school 
                                           (other   than   a   play   school)   first   attended; 
                                           and in the absence whereof; 
                                      ii. the birth certificate given by a corporation 
                                           or a municipal authority or a panchayat; 
                                      iii. the matriculation or equivalent certificates, 
                                           if available; 
                                 (b)      and only in the absence of either (i), (ii) or 
                                 (iii) of clause (a) above, the medical opinion will 
                                 be sought from a duly constituted Medical Board, 
                                 which will declare the age of the juvenile or child. 
                                 In case exact assessment  of  the  age cannot be 
                                 done, the 
                                 Court or the Board or, as the case may be, the 
                                 Committee,   for   the   reasons   to   be   recorded   by 
                                 them, may, if considered necessary, give benefit 
                                 to the child or juvenile by considering his/her age 
                                 on lower side within the margin of one year and, 
                                 while   passing   orders   in   such   case   shall,   after 
                                 taking into consideration such evidence as  may 
                                 be available, or the medical opinion, as the case 
                                 may be, record a finding in respect of his age and 
                                 either   of   the   evidence   specified   in   any   of   the 
                                 clauses (a)(i), (ii), (iii) or in the absence whereof, 
                                 clause (b) shall be the conclusive proof of the age 
                                 as   regards   such   child   or   the   juvenile   in  conflict 
                                 with law. 

     12.                       Juvenile Justice Act applies in both cases where accused 

          is juvenile or victim is juvenile.


State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 12  of  21
      13.                       Therefore,   in   view   of   the   aforesaid   rule   12,   the   age 

          recorded in the school, is to be given most preference, if same is 

          available   and   the court find it trustworthy and there is no need to 

          look for any other evidence for determination of age of a person. 

     14.                       Hence, while relying upon the school record, I held that, 

          prosecutrix   has   been   able   to   prove   that,   her   date   of   birth   is 

          10.4.2000.     As per the testimony of PW­2 she had gone with the 

          accused   on   7.11.12,   this   fact   has   not   been   disputed   by   accused, 

          therefore,   the   date   of   birth   of   prosecutrix   comes   to   12   years   six 

          months and 28 days on the day of incident.  Hence, prosecutrix was 

          under   16   years   of   age   hence   her   consent   is   immaterial.     If 

          prosecution   is   able   to   prove   that   prosecutrix   has   gone   with   the 

          accused   without   the   permission   of   her   parents   and   sexual 

          intercourse was committed by the accused then accused is liable to 

          be   convicted   for   offence   u/s   376/363   IPC.   But,   at   the   same   time 

          since prosecutrix was above 12 years of age.       Therefore Section 

          376 (2)(f) is not attracted.
     15.                       Now   come   to   the   next   issue   whether   prosecutrix   was 

          kidnapped or not.  The star witness of the prosecution case is PW­2 

          R.   She   deposed   that   on   7.11.12   she   along   with   her   parents   were 

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 13  of  21
           residing   on   the   first   floor   of   the   building   of   Bachu   as   tenant   and 

          Bachu @ Rajesh was also residing on the ground floor of the same 

          building and on the said day her parents were not present at the 

          house   and   she   was   alone   at   the   house.     Accused   came   to 

          accompany her for roaming and promised her that she will give her 

          good  food  and  take  her  to  various  places and  thereafter  accused 

          took her to a temple at Noida where he proposed to her to marry but 

          she refused her proposal of marriage and thereafter accused took 

          her   to   a   house   in   Noida   and   there   he   committed   forceful   sexual 

          intercourse with her and accused committed the same for two days. 

          Accused kept her in his house for two days and on both days he 

          sexually assaulted her and thereafter when she insisted to go to her 

          parents house, accused sent her on the motorcycle of some other 

          person   to   Metro   Station   near   Rajapur   and   from   there   she   took   a 

          rickshaw and came back to her house.  Nothing has come out from 

          her cross examination to disbelieve her testimony to the extent that 

          she had not gone with the accused to Noida or that accused had not 

          committed any sexual intercourse with her.   In fact no suggestion 

          has   been   given   by   the   accused   that   she   had   not   gone   with   the 

          accused   or   that   accused   had   not   committed   any   forceful   sexual 

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 14  of  21
           intercourse with her rather suggestion has been given that she had 

          gone without accused with her own free will and accused had not 

          committed   sexual   intercourse   forcefully,   which   is   amount   to 

          admission   that   accused   had   taken   her   to   Noida   and   committed 

          sexual intercourse with her.   Hence it is proved beyond reasonable 

          doubt   that   accused   had   taken   the   prosecutrix   to   Noida   and 

          committed sexual intercourse with her.   
     16.                       In a rape case, testimony of prosecutrix is most important 

          being only eye witness in most of the cases.   Her testimony has to 

          be given utmost sanctity and if court find it cogent and trustworthy 

          and no corroboration is required.  In this regard, I rely upon Madho 

          Ram and another V The State of U.P., AIR 1973 SC 469 wherein it 

          was held as under :­­

                     [T]   the   prosecutrix   cannot   be   considered   to   be   an 
                     accomplice.   As a rule of prudence, however, it has 
                     been emphasized that Courts should normally look 
                     for some corroboration of her testimony in order to 
                     satisfy   itself   that   the   prosecutrix  is  telling   the   truth 
                     and that a person, accused of abduction or rape, has 
                     not   been   falsely   implicated.     The   view   that,   as   a 
                     matter   of   law,   no   conviction   without   corroboration 
                     was possible has not been accepted.  The only rule 
                     of law is the rule of prudence namely the advisability 

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 15  of  21
                      of corroboration should be present in the mind of the 
                     Judge or the Jury, as the case may be.  There is no 
                     rule of practice that there must in every case,   be 
                     corroboration before a conviction can be allowed to 
                     stand.  
     17.                       It   was   further   held   in   case    Bharwada   Bhoginbhai 

          Hirjibhai V State of Gujarat, AIR 1983 SC 753(1) as under :­­

                     Corroboration is not the sine qua non for a conviction 
                     in a rape case.  In the Indian setting, refusal to act on 
                     the   testimony   of   a   victim   of   sexual   assault   in   the 
                     absence of corroboration as a rule, is adding insult to 
                     injury.     Why  should   the   evidence  of  the  girl  or  the 
                     woman who complains of rape or sexual molestation 
                     be   viewed   with   the   aid   of   spectacles   fitted   with 
                     lenses tinged with doubt, disbelief or suspicion ? To 
                     do so is to justify the charge of male chauvinism in a 
                     male dominated society.
                     On   principle   the   evidence   of   a   victim   of   sexual 
                     assault   stands   on   par   with   evidence   of   an   injured 
                     witness.    Just   as  a  witness  who   has  sustained   an 
                     injury   (which   is   not   shown   or   believed   to   be   self 
                     inflicted) is the best witness in the sense that he is 
                     least   likely   to   exculpate   the   real   offender,   the 
                     evidence   of  a  victim  of   a  sex­offence  is  entitled   to 
                     great   weight,   absence   of   corroboration   not 
                     withstanding.  And while corroboration in the form of 


State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 16  of  21
                      eye­witness account of an independent witness may 
                     often be forthcoming.
                     Corroboration may be insisted upon when a woman 
                     having attained majority is found in a compromising 
                     position   and   there   is   a   likelihood   of   her   having 
                     leveled such an accusation on account of the instinct 
                     of   self   -   preservation,   or   when   the   'probabilities 
                     factor' is found to be out of tune.
     18.                       The  Supreme   Court   in   case  State   of   Maharashtra  V 

          Chandraprakash   Kewalchand   Jain,   (1990)   1   SCC   550 

          summarized the legal position in following words :­­

                      "A prosecutrix of a sex offence cannot be put on a 
                      par with an accomplice.  She is in fact a victim of the 
                      crime.     The   Evidence   Act   nowhere   says   that   her 
                      evidence   cannot   be   accepted   unless   it   is 
                      corroborated   in   material   particulars.     She   is 
                      undoubtedly a competent witness under Section 118 
                      and her evidence must receive the same weight as 
                      is   attached   to   an   injured   in   cases   of   physical 
                      violence.     The   same   degree   of   care   and   caution 
                      must attach in the evaluation of her evidence as in 
                      the case of an injured complainant or witness and 
                      no more.   What is necessary is that the court must 
                      be alive to and conscious of the fact that it is dealing 
                      with the evidence of a person who is interested in 
                      the   outcome   of   the   charge   levelled   by  her.     If   the 

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 17  of  21
                       court   keeps   this  in   mind   and   feels  satisfied   that   it 
                      can act on the evidence of the prosecutrix, there is 
                      no   rule   of   law   or   practice   incorporated   in   the 
                      Evidence Act similar to Illustration (b) to Section 114 
                      which   requires   it   to   look   for   corroboration.     If   for 
                      some reason the court is hesitant to place implicit 
                      reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix it may 
                      look for evidence which may lend assurance to her 
                      testimony short of corroboration required in the case 
                      of an accomplice.   The nature of evidence required 
                      to lend assurance to the testimony of the prosecutrix 
                      must   necessarily   depend   on   the   facts   and 
                      circumstances of each case. But if a prosecutrix is 
                      an   adult   and   of   full   understanding   the   court   is 
                      entitled to base a conviction on her evidence unless 
                      the same is shown to be infirm and not trustworthy. 
                      If the totality of the circumstances appearing on the 
                      record of the false case disclose that the prosecutrix 
                      does not have a strong motive to falsely involve the 
                      person charged, the court should ordinarily have no 
                      hesitation in accepting her evidence."
     19.                       Hence   from   the   testimony   of   prosecutrix,   it   is   proved 

          beyond reasonable doubt that accused has taken her to Noida and 

          committed   sexual   intercourse   with   her.   Even   if   I   look   for 

          corroboration,   the   testimony   of   PW­3   Badami   Dev,   mother   of   the 

          prosecutrix it is proved that accused has taken the prosecutrix.  She 


State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 18  of  21
           had stated that 2­3 days before Diwali in the month of November, 

          2012   she   had   gone   to   her   workplace   as  usual  at   6   am     and   her 

          husband has gone to ply rickshaw and her daughter R was alone in 

          the house.   When she came back,  she did not find R present in the 

          house.  She searched  R and thereafter she reported the matter to 

          the police. Thereafter police recorded her statement ExPW3/A.   R 

          returned to her house after 17 days.  Again nothing has come out in 

          the   cross   examination   and   I   do   not   find   why   she   will   make   false 

          complaint about the missing of her daughter which was lodged on 

          7.11.12   and   accused   had   not   given   the   suggestion   that   PW­3   had 

          lodged false complaint.   On perusal of FIR ExPW8/A, it is evident 

          that     FIR   has   been   registered     on   9.11.12   in   which   incident   is 

          mentioned as 7.11.12, therefore it is proved that prosecutrix was gone 

          missing on 7.11.12.  
     20.                       Further,   from   the   MLC   of   the   prosecutrix   ExPW4/A, 

          proved by Dr. Roopal Ilwadi­Sr. Gynae.   It is proved that hymen of 

          the   prosecutrix   was   ruptured   which   also   prove   that   she   was 

          subjected to regular sexual intercourse.   From the MLC of accused 

          ExPW1/A it is proved that genital organ of the accused appeared to 

          be normal.  No suggestion has been given  by the accused that he 

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 19  of  21
           was not capable to perform sexual intercourse. Hence it is proved 

          that   accused   was   capable   to   perform   sexual   intercourse.   In   his 

          statement u/s. 313 Cr.P.C. also accused had stated that he has not 

          enticed the prosecutrix and she had gone voluntarily with him and 

          established   physical   relationship   with   him   with   her   consent. 

          Therefore, he admitted that he took the prosecutrix and committed 

          sexual intercourse with her. The testimony of PW1 & PW2 is also 

          corroborated by the PW10, PW11, PW12 and PW13. Therefore, in 

          these circumstances, I held that prosecution has been able to prove 

          that   accused   has   taken   the   prosecutrix   to   Noida   and   committed 

          sexual intercourse with her. 
     21.                        The prosecutrix 'R', a girl of less than 18 years of age, no 

          consent   of   her   parent   had   been   taken,     thus   he   has   committed 

          kidnapping of the prosecutrix, hence, I convict the accused u/s 363 

          IPC.
     22.                       Further it is since proved that prosecutrix who is less than 

          16 years of age when sexual intercourse was committed with her by 

          accused, therefore I convict the accused for offence u/s 376 IPC.

     23.                       As   far   as   offence   u/s   342   IPC   is   concerned   since 

          prosecutrix   has   stated   in   her   testimony,  she   had   not   stated   that 

State V Rajesh @ Batla            SC No.40/13      FIR No.450/12               PS  Prashant Vihar             Page No. 20  of  21
           accused   had   confined   her   forcibly   and   she   was   not   confined   forcibly. 

          Though in her testimony Therefore, in my view, she has resided with the 

          accused in a house at Noida with her own free will, therefore, I acquit him 

          for offence u/s 342 IPC. 

