Case of Prosecution:

1.            On 04.06.2010 at about 4.35 am DD No. 18A was received at 

police   station   Pul   Prahladpur   regarding   rape   upon   a   minor   girl   namely 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 1 of 24
 'X' ( name withheld to keep her identity confidential) .  After receiving the 

information,   SI   Mahender   Singh   along   with   Ct.   Sanjay   and   Ct.   Arvind 

Kumar reached at the spot i.e. Tanki No. 1, Railway Colony, Tuglakabad.  On 

reaching   there, they came to know that prosecutrix along with her mother 

was taken to hospital.  SI Mahender Singh along with other staff reached at 

the spot i.e. Block No. 91, Railway colony, Tuglakabad, New Delhi where on 

the top floor rape was committed upon the prosecutrix.  SHO  Police station 

Tuglakabad also reached at the spot. Subsequently, Ct. Sanjay Kumar was 

deputed at the spot by the Investigating officer.   SI Mahender singh along 

with   Lady Ct. Jyoti reached at AIIMS Hospital, New Delhi.   MLC of the 

prosecutrix   was   collected   from   the   AIIMS   Hospital   by   the   Investigating 

officer. Statement of complainant Ms. Dropadi Devi was recorded by the 

Investigating   officer   and   case   under   Section   376   of   IPC   was   registered 

against   the   accused   Dalip.     Accused   was   arrested   and   his   medical 

examination was got conducted by the investigating officer.     Statement of 

prosecutrix as well as witnesses were recorded by the police.  Exhibits were 

sent   to   FSL,   Rohini,   Delhi   for   examination   and   after   completion   of 

investigation,   charge   sheet   was   filed   against   the   accused   under   Section 

376/323/325 of IPC in the court. 
2.            Since the offence under Section 376 IPC is exclusively triable 

by   the   Court   of   Sessions,   therefore,   after   supply   of   documents,   Ld. 

Metropolitan Magistrate committed the case to the court of Sessions.



3.             Prima facie case under Section 376/323/325 of IPC was made 

out against the accused Dalip.   Charge under Section 376/323/325 of IPC 

was   framed   upon   the   accused   by   my   Ld.   Predecessor   vide   order   dated 

16.11.2010 against which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 

Witnesses Examined:
4.             In   support   of   its   case,   prosecution   has   examined   twenty 

witnesses  in   all.       The   brief   summary   of   deposition   of   the   prosecution 

witnesses is as under:­

Material Witnesses:­

5.             PW­5 is Smt. Dropadi Devi, complainant of the present case. 

She stated that on 4th  June, year she does not remember she was at home. 

Her children were playing outside her jhuggi.  On that day at about 1 pm her 

daughter 'X' disappeared while playing.  Her daughter Kalpana and son Sat 

Prakash returned  home and informed her immediately.  She waited for her 

daughter 'X' till 1.30 pm and thereafter searched her.   At about 3 pm, her 

daughter 'X' came to her house weeping.   Her clothes were having blood 

stains. On asking, her daughter told her that one uncle had taken her on the 

roof of the quarters of Tuglakabad Railway Colony and removed her clothes 

and lay down on her.  Then, her daughter took PW­5 to the spot where blood 

was also lying.  Her daughter told that uncle had committed galat kaam with 

her.  Her daughter was medically examined at the hospital and her statement 



 SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 3 of 24
 was   recorded   by   the   police.     PW­5   further   produced   on   record   copy   of 

affidavit regarding the age of her daughter 'X' Ex.PW5/B.  

6.            PW­6 is prosecutrix herself.   She stated that she was playing 

with her sister namely Kalpana and her brother namely Prakash behind the 

tank.   Accused Jugnu took her to Chouthi Manjil Chhat ( 3rd floor terrace) 

and did galat kaam with her.  She know accused Jugnu through her father. 

When she came back from Chauthi Manzil Chhat she narrated the whole 

incident  to  her  mother.     She along with her mother went to the Chauthi 

Manjil Chhat where the blood was found. Police took her to the hospital and 

got conducted her medical examination.   
7.            PW­8 is Km. Sadhna, sister of the prosecutrix.  She stated that 

on 04.06.2010 she was present in the house.  On that day,  her brother and 

sisters were playing outside.  Her sister Kalpana came back weeping because 

her sister/prosecutrix did not turn up.  They searched their sister/prosecutrix 

but could not found her.     Her sister/prosecutrix came back at 2/3 pm and 

was in a bad condition.   She was bleeding from her private part and her 

clothes were smeared with blood.  PW­8 stated that her mother called up the 

police. 
8.            PW­9 is Km. Kalpana, sister of prosecutrix who also deposed on 

the lines of PW­8. 
9.            PW­20 is SI Mahender Singh, Investigating Officer of the case 

who conducted the whole investigation, arrested the accused, recorded the 

statement   of   witnesses   and   duly   proved   all   the   memos   prepared   in   this 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 4 of 24
 regard.   
Formal Witnesses:­

10.           PW­1 is Ms. Surya Malik Grover, Metropolitan Magistrate who 

conducted the TIP proceedings of accused Dalip and has duly proved the 

memos  Ex.PW1/A to Ex.PW1/C in this regard. 
11.           PW­2   is   Sh.   Sanjeev   Kumar,   Metropolitan   Magistrate   who 

recorded the statement of prosecutrix under Section 164 of Cr.P.C and has 

duly proved the memos Ex.PW2/A to Ex.PW2/C.  
12.           PW­3  is SI  Mahesh Kumar, Draughtsman who stated that  he 

along with Investigating officer reached at the spot and has duly proved the 

scaled site plan vide Ex.PW3/A.  
13.           PW­4 is HC Girdhari Lal , MHC(M) who stated that he made 

entry in register no. 19 and has duly proved all the memos.

14.           PW­10 is HC Beg Raj who proved on record DD entry No. 18A 

vide Ex.PW10/A and recorded the FIR Ex.PW10/B.  
15.           PW­11 is L/Ct. Seema who proved on record the information 

regarding rape upon a girl vide Ex.PW11/A.  
16.           PW­14  is HC Arvind Kumar who along with Ct. Sanjay and 

Investigating officer reached at the spot, got registered the case FIR and has 

duly proved all the memos etc. 

17.           PW­15   is   Ct.   Sanjay   Kumar   who   on   the   instructions   of 

investigating officer remained at the spot i.e. Block ­91, Near pani ki tanki­1, 


SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 5 of 24
 Railway colony, Tuglakabad, got the spot photographed and handed over the 

photographs  Ex.PW15/A1 to Ex.PW15A6 to the Investigating officer . 

18.            PW­16 is L/Ct. Jyoti who accompanied the Investigating officer 

to   AIIMS   hospital   and   recorded   the   statement   of   prosecutrix   on   the 

instructions of investigating officer. 
19.            PW­17 is HC Surender Singh who took three pullandas sealed 

with   the   seal   of   hospital   along   with   sample   seal   from   the   hospital   and 

handed over the same to the investigating officer vide memo Ex.PW14/A.  

20.            PW­18 is Ct. Vijay singh who joined the investigation of the 

case with the investigating officer,   arrested the accused, got the accused 

medically examined and has duly proved all the memos in this regard. 

21.            PW­19 is HC Pratap Singh who joined the investigation of the 

case   with   the   investigating   officer,   arrested   the   accused,   got   the   accused 

medically examined and has duly proved all the memos in this regard. 

 Medical Witnesses :­
                     

22.            PW­7   is   Dr.   Prajnanika   Gurung  who  proved  on  record  MLC 

Ex.PW7/A prepared by Dr. Kinshana Jain .
23.            PW­12 is Dr. Rajani Kanta Swain who proved on record MLC 

Ex.PW12/A   of   patient/accused   Daleep   @   Jugnu   prepared   by   Dr.   Shiva 

Prasad. 
24.            PW­13 is Dr. Sanjay Kumar who proved on record MLC already 

Ex.PW7/A of prosecutrix prepared by Dr. Kinshana Jain.  


SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 6 of 24
 Statement and Defence of accused:­

25.            Statement   of   accused   under   section   313   Cr.P.C   was   recorded 

wherein accused stated that he has been falsely implicated in the present case 

and stated that police officials gave beatings to his father and brother and 

threatened him to sign on some blank papers or they will falsely implicate 

his brother and father.  Accused chose not to lead evidence in his defence.

26.            I have heard the Ld. Counsel for the accused as well as Ld. APP  

for state and have carefully perused the record. 
Arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel for the accused:­

27.            Ld. Defence Counsel for accused argued that the accused has 

been   falsely   implicated   in   this   case.   The   identity   of   the   accused   is   not 

established from the statement of the complainant. The complainant is the 

mother of the prosecutrix who in her cross examination has stated that she 

has seen the accused for the first time in court and as such, the accused was 

not earlier known to the complainant.  The identification of the accused by 

the prosecutrix who is aged 5 years is also very doubtful.   It is also stated 

that the medical evidence also does not connect the accused and hence, the 

accused be acquitted. 
Arguments of Ld. Additional Public Prosecutor for the State:­

28.            On the other hand, Ld. APP for state argued that the testimony 

of the complainant, the prosecutrix and her sisters have remained intact and 

are duly corroborated by the medical evidence on record.   The accused is 


SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 7 of 24
 duly   identified.   The   medical   evidence   also   supports   the   statement   of   the 

public witnesses.   Hence, the prosecution has duly proved the case against 

the accused.
Conclusion:­

29.             Before appreciating the facts of this case,it is necessary to know 

the ingredients of the offence by resorting to the provisions of sec.375 read 

with sec.376 IPC. Section 375 Rape provides:­ " A man is said to commit 

"rape" who, except in the case hereinafter excepted, has sexual intercourse 

with a woman under circumstances falling under any of the six following 

descriptions:­

               First­ Against her will.
               Secondly­ Without her consent.
               Thirdly­ With her consent, when her consent has been obtained 

by putting her or any person in whom she is interested in fear of death or of 

hurt.
               Fourthly­ With her consent, when the man knows that he is not 

her husband, and that her consent is given because she believes that he is 

another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married.

               Fifthly­  With   her   consent,   when,   at   the   time   of   giving   such 

consent,   by   reason   of   unsoundness   of   mind   or   intoxication   or   the 

administration by him personally or through another of any stupefying or 

unwholesome   substance,   she   is   unable   to   understand   the   nature   and 

consequences of that to which she gives consent.  
SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 8 of 24
                Sixthly­  With or without her consent, when she under sixteen 

years of age. 
               Explanation­  Penetration   is   sufficient   to  constitute  the   sexual 

intercourse necessary to the offence of rape.  
               Exception­ Sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the 

wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape.  

30.             "Rape" is the act of physically forcing a woman to have sexual 

intercourse: an act of sexual intercourse that is forced upon a woman against 

her will.  "Statutory rape" is a sexual intercourse with a girl under the age of 

consent, which age varies in different States from ten to eighteen years. 

                 The offence of rape in its simplest term is 'the ravishment of a 

woman,   without   her   consent,   by   force,   fear   or   fraud',   or   as   'the   carnal 

knowledge of a woman by force against her will? 'Rape' or 'Raptus' is when a 

man hath carnal knowledge of a woman by force and against her will (Co. 

lett. 123­b); or as expressed more fully, 'rape' is the carnal knowledge of any 

woman, above the age of particular years, against her will; or of a woman 

child, under that age, with or against her will. Section 375 IPC defines rape. 

This Section requires the following essentials:­

               1. Sexual intercourse by a man with woman.
               2. The sexual intercourse must be under circumstances falling 

                   under any of the six clauses in Section 375 IPC.  
31.            The   two   issues   to   be   determined   on   the   basis   of   evidence 

adduced by the prosecution are the age of the prosecutrix and whether she 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 9 of 24
 was a consenting party to the incident or not.  
32.            Age of the prosecutrix:­   In the present case, accused has been 

charged under Section 376 IPC for committing rape upon the prosecutrix 

aged about 05 years without her consent.  Section 376(2)(f) of IPC provides 

for higher degree of punishment for the offence of rape committed with the 

girl who is under 12 years of age.  As regard to the age of the prosecutrix, 

the prosecution case is that the prosecutrix is a minor child of 5 years of age. 

As per the statement of complainant Ms. Dropadi, PW­5 who is the mother 

of the prosecutrix, the prosecutrix was not a school going child.   The mother 

of the prosecutrix has stated that she is having seven daughters and one son 

and the prosecutrix is at serial no. 6 and is aged about 5 years.  The eldest 

daughter   is   20   years   old.     The   mother   of   the   prosecutrix   i.e.   PW­5   had 

produced   one   affidavit   with   regard   to   the   age   of   the   child   which   was 

exhibited   as   Ex.PW5/B.   The   said   affidavit   is   sworn   by   the   father   of   the 

prosecutrix on 20.09.2010 wherein the date of birth of child is mentioned as 

16.10.2005.     It   is  also   mentioned by the  father  of  the  prosecutrix  in this 

affidavit that he could not get the date of birth of the prosecutrix registered 

in MCD record due to lack of knowledge. The accused has not challenged 

the testimony of the mother of the prosecutrix PW­5 so as to controvert her 

statement with regard to the age of the prosecutrix.  The authenticity of this 

affidavit is also not challenged in the cross examination of PW­5 from the 

side of accused.  The accused has nowhere taken the plea that the age of the 

prosecutrix was not 5 years when the offence was committed. Hence, from 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 10 of 24
 the unchallenged testimony of the mother of the prosecutrix it is proved that 

the prosecutrix was aged 5 years on the day of incident.  

33.            Consent   of   the   prosecutrix   and   other   ingredients   of   the 

offence:­    The entire foundation to bring home the charge of rape rests on 

the statement of the prosecutrix who is just aged 5 years of age.  It needs no 

elaboration that a conviction can be based on the uncorroborated evidence of 

the prosecutrix if the same inspires confidence.   It will be useful to refer to 

the   observations   of   Apex   Court   in   the   case   titled   as   Radhu   Vs   State   of 

Madhya  Pradesh   2007,   Crl.   Law  Journal  4704  wherein  Hon'ble  Supreme 

court has held that:­

            " It is now well settled that a finding of guilt in a case of  
            rape, can be based on the uncorroborated evidence of the  
            prosecutrix. The very nature of offence makes it difficult  
            to get direct corroborating evidence. The evidence of the  
            prosecutrix should not be rejected on the basis of minor  
            discrepancies   and   contradictions.   If   the   victim   of   rape  
            states on oath that she was forcibly subjected to sexual  
            intercourse,   her   statement   will   normally   be   accepted,  
            even if it is uncorroborated, unless the material on record  
            requires drawing of an inference that there was consent  
            or that the entire incident was improbable or imaginary.  
            Even if there is consent, the act will still be a 'rape', if the  
            girl is under 16 years of age. It is also well settled that  
            absence of injuries on the private parts of the victim will  
            not  by itself  falsify the case of rape, nor construed as  
            evidence of consent. Similarly, the opinion of a doctor  
            that there was no evidence of any sexual intercourse or  
            rape, may not be sufficient to disbelieve the accusation of  


SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 11 of 24
             rape by the victim. Bruises, abrasions and scratches on  
            the victim especially on the forearms, writs, face, breast,  
            thighs   and   back   are   indicative   of   struggle   and   will  
            support   the   allegation   of   sexual   assault.  The   courts  
            should, at the same time, bear in mind that false charges  
            of rape are not uncommon. There have also been rare  
            instances   where   a   parent   has   persuaded   a   gullible   or  
            obedient daughter to make a false charge of a rape either  
            to take revenge or extort money or to get rid of financial  
            liability.  Whether there was rape or not  would depend  
            ultimately on the facts and circumstances of each case. 
            15.   The   evidence   of   the   prosecutrix   when   read   as   a  
            whole,   is   full   of   discrepancies   and   does   not   inspire  
            confidence.   The   gaps   in   the   evidence,   the   several  
            discrepancies   in   the   evidence  and  other  circumstances  
            make it highly improbable that such an incident ever took  
            place. The learned Counsel for the respondent submitted  
            that defence had failed to prove that Mangilal, father of  
            prosecutrix   was   indebted  to  Radhu's   father   Nathu  and  
            consequently,   defence   of   false   implication   of   accused  
            should be rejected. Attention was invited to the denial by  
            the   mother   and   father   of   the   prosecutrix,   of   the  
            suggestion   made   on   behalf   of   the   defence,   that  
            Sumanbai's   father   Mangilal   was   indebted   to   Radhu's  
            father Nathu and because Nathu was demanding money,  
            they   had   made   the   false   charge   of   rape,   to   avoid  
            repayment. The fact that the defence had failed to prove  
            the   indebtedness   of   Mangilal   or   any   motive   for   false  
            implication,   does   not   have   much   relevance,   as   the  
            prosecution miserably failed to prove the charges. We are  
            satisfied that the evidence does not warrant a finding of  
            guilt at all, and the Trial Court and High Court erred in  
            returning a finding of guilt." 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 12 of 24
                            Similar views are expressed in State of Punjab  
            Vs. Gurmit Singh & Ors. AIR 1996 SC 1393,   wherein  
            honble the Supreme Court held that in cases involving  
            sexual offences, harassment, molestation etc. the court is  
            duty   bound   to   deal   with   such   cases   with   utmost  
            sensitivity. It was held that: "The courts should examine  
            the broader probabilities of a case and not get swayed by  
            minor   contradictions   or   insignificant   discrepancies   in  
            the statement of the prosecutrix, which are not of a fatal  
            nature,   to  throw  out an otherwise reliable prosecution  
            case. If evidence of the prosecutrix inspires confidence,  
            it must be relied upon without seeking corroboration of  
            her statement in material particulars. If for some reason  
            the court finds it difficult to place implicit reliance on  
            her testimony, it may look for evidence which may lend  
            assurance   to   her   testimony,   short   of   corroboration  
            required in the case of an accomplice. The testimony of  
            the prosecutrix must be appreciated in the background of  
            the entire case and the trial court must be alive to its  
            responsibility and be sensitive while dealing with cases  
            involving sexual molestations." 
34.             The prosecutrix in this case is a minor child of 5 years. The 

Indian   Evidence   Act   1872   does   not   prescribe   any   particular   age   as   a 

determinative factor to treat the witness to be competent witness. As per 

section   118   of   Indian   Evidence   Act,   1872,   all   the   witnesses   shall   be 

competent to testify unless the court considers that they are prevented from 

understanding the question put to them or from giving rational answers to 

those questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, weather of body 

or   mind   or   any   other   cause   of   the   same   kind.   An   explanation   has   been 



SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 13 of 24
 incorporated by the legislature to clarify that a lunatic is not incompetent to 

testify, unless he is prevented by his lunacy from understanding the questions 

put to him and giving rational answers. Thus, so far as the competency to 

appear as a witness, the legislature has underlined the basic requirement of a 

person's understanding of the obligation to speak the truth and to give an 

accurate impression and possession of the mental capacity at the time of the 

occurrence concerning which he has to testify and to receive an accurate 

impression of it.  This would be moreso in the case the witness is a child of 

tender years.   It is necessary to ascertain as to whether the witness had a 

memory sufficient to retain and independent recollection of the occurrence, 

capacity to understand simple question about it and the capacity to express 

his / her memory of occurrence.  
35.           The Apex court has observed that the omission to administer an 

oath goes to the credibility of the witness and not his competency which is in 

effect under section 118 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872.  

36.               So far as the competency of a child to testify as a witness is 

concerned, the courts in India have relied on the proposition formulated by 

Justice Brewer in Wheeler vs. United States 159 US 523 (1895) who had 

opined that the evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected per 

se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with close 

scrutiny and only on being convicted about the quality thereof and reliability 

can record conviction, based thereon.
37.             The   reservation   expressed   with   regard   to   evaluating   the 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 14 of 24
 testimony   of   a   witness   is   based   on   apprehensions   that   children   may   be 

vulnerable and susceptible to be swayed by what others tell and the child 

witness   is   an   easy   pray   to   tutoring  and  therefore  their   evidence  must   be 

evaluated carefully and with greater circumspection. (Ref: Panchhi vs. State 

of  U.P. MANU/SC/ 0530/ 1998 : 1998 CriLJ 4044). 
38.                It is equally well settled that if satisfied that the testimony of 

the   child   witness   is   a   voluntary   expression   of   what   transpired   and   is   an 

accurate   impression   of   the   same,   no   corroboration   of   the   testimony   is 

required. The Supreme Court has repeatedly ruled that there is no rule of 

practice that the evidence of a child witness needs corroboration and stated 

that   conviction   can   be   based   on   it.   It   is   only   as   a   rule   of   caution   and 

prudence that the court    may   require   that   it  would   be   desirable   to 

have corroboration from other dependable evidence.   (Ref : Dattu Ramrao 

Sakhare  & Ors. vs. State of  Maharashtra MANU/SC/1185/1997 : (1997) 5 

SCC   341;   Suryanarayana   vs.   State   of   Karnataka   MANU/SC/0001/2001   : 

2001 Cri.L.J. 705). 
39.             In the case of Dhirender Vs State of NCT of Delhi , Crl. A.No. 

121/2008 decided on 29.09.2009, Hon'ble Justice Geeta Mittal of Delhi High 

Court   has  beautifully   summed up the law propounded by Apex Court  in 

various pronouncements eg. Sakshi Vs Union of India & Ors. AIR 2004 SC  

3566, Sudesh Jhaku Vs K.C.J & Ors. 1998 Crl. L. J. 2428 and various other 

pronouncements   wherein   the   Hon'ble   Apex   Court   has   referred   to   the 



SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 15 of 24
 necessity of examination of a rape victim under screen and in camera and 

has   also   held   that   the   trial   judge   may   permit   a   social   worker   or   other 

friendly, independent or neutral adult in whom the child has confidence to 

accompany the child and to be present and accessible to the child at all times 

during his or her testimony.   Though, the care should be taken that such 

person does not influence the child's testimony.

40.            In the present case the father and mother of prosecutrix were 

standing   besides   the   prosecutrix   at   the   time   of   her   examination   and   one 

counselor of NGO and one Advocate from Delhi Commission for Women 

was also present in the court but after my predecessor court had satisfied 

itself about the capability and the competency of PW­6 to depose before the 

court, she had recorded her statement.   
41.            In this case, the testimony of prosecutrix PW­6 is consistent. 

She is not shaken during her cross examination despite the not so conducive 

atmosphere­ almost bordering the hostile­ in the court during the recording 

of her testimony.   In her deposition before the court she has identified the 

accused   to   be   the   person   who   had   committed   rape   upon   her.     She   has 

deposed in the statement that one day she was playing with Kalpana and 

Prakash behind the Tent .  It was morning time. Jugnu took her to Chauthi 

Manzil Chath(3 rd Floor terrace) and he was doing galat kaam with her.  She 

has stated that "Jugnu ne meri Nunu me Nunu Dala tha. Chouthi Manjil se  

mein Akele Utri Thi. Mere Nunu se khoon Nikla tha". She further deposed 

that she know Jugnu earlier.  She has also identified the accused in the court. 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 16 of 24
 She has further stated that when she came back from Chauthi Manjil Chath 

from her house, her mother met her to whom she narrated the incident who 

also went to Chauthi Manjil Chath along with her mother where blood was 

found.     She has also identified her   clothes Ex.P1 and Ex.P2 which were 

worn   by   her   at   the   time   of   incident.     In   her   cross   examination   she   has 

specifically deposed that name of the accused was not disclosed to her by the 

police and stated 'Mujhe Pata Tha'. She has also stated that after one day of 

the incident police brought Jugnu to her house where she has seen him.  She 

has denied that she had stated the name of Jugnu in her statement before the 

magistrate at the instance of police.  The testimony of the prosecutrix, with 

relation   to   the   incident   of   rape   is   reassuring   as   she   has   been   consistent 

throughout in describing what the accused did to her. Her description of the 

act of rape is accurate and narrated with the understanding of a five year old 

child. It is not spoken of with the sophistication of an adult, and from this 

one can be reassured that the child has not been coached. She has referred to 

her private parts as well as to the private part of the accused as 'Nunu'. In the 

statement   under   section   164   Cr.P.C   she   referred   to   her   private   part   as 

'Peshab Wali Jagah'.   She has stated that blood came out from her Nunu. 

The mother of the prosecutrix has fortified her statement to the effect that 

her clothes were having blood stains. Hence, the word Nunu is referable to 

'Vagina' and nothing else.  Even the medical examination of child shows that 

bleeding   was   present   and   there   was   fresh   tear.   Before   the   court   the 

prosecutrix   has identified  the accused as well  as narrated the incident in 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 17 of 24
 clear terms. Moreover,  the statement of the prosecutrix is also corroborated 

to some extent by her sister PW­9 Kalpana aged 10 years who was playing 

with the prosecutrix when the prosecutrix, during the play had disappeared 

and when after sometime she returned she was bleeding from her private 

parts and was weeping.   PW­9 has stated that Sapna is aged about 7 years 

and on the day of incident she along with her brother Prakash and sister 

Sapna   were   playing   in   the   park   situated   nearby   her   house.     Her   brother 

Prakash  hurl  stones towards her and she ran.   Her sister Sapna was also 

following her.   She made a complaint about hurling of stones to her Sister 

Sadhna who advised Prakash not to do so and thereafter they started playing. 

She has also stated that she know the accused who is Jugnu uncle, who is 

resident in the same locality.   She has also deposed that while playing her 

sister disappeared and when she returned there was blood on her underwear 

and banyan and she was weeping.   She deposed  "Meri Behen roh rahi thi  

kyonki usse chot lagi thi".  In her cross examination she has stated that for 

the first time she had seen the accused standing near the pole on 04th June. 

The statement of PW­9 corroborates the statement of prosecutrix to some 

extent on the point of presence of accused Jugnu at the place of incident, 

disappearance of the prosecutrix while playing, her return after some time, 

bleeding from her private parts and weeping.  Even in the statement recorded 

under   section   164   Cr.P.C,   the   prosecutrix   had   named   the   accused   and 

narrated the incident.  
42.            The statement of the prosecutrix on the point of rape is also 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 18 of 24
 corroborated by her mother who has stated that after the disappearance of 

her   daughter   she   had   returned   after   half   an   hour   or   one   hour   and   was 

weeping and bleeding from her private part.  The mother of the prosecutrix 

along with her   had gone to the place of incident and had witnessed lot of 

blood lying at the spot.  The police had also lifted the blood from the earth 

as well as from the walls of the spot.      
Medical Evidence:­

43.            In the MLC the factum of rape upon the prosecutrix has been 

mentioned. As per the report, her hymen was found torn with fresh tears. 

Perineal tear and bleeding was present.   On her physical examination the 

doctor had found scratch marks over her face, neck(B/L), abdomen(lower, 

B/L),   back   generalized,   legs   (B/L).   As   per   the   report   on   the   MLC,   the 

external   injuries   of   the   prosecutrix   were   opined   as   simple   whereas   her 

vaginal   injuries   were   opined   as   grievous   and   the   victim   was   referred   to 

Surgeon for treatment of vaginal injuries.  
44.            The  FSL result with regard to the exhibits of the prosecutrix as 

well as of the accused is also placed on record by the prosecution.   The 

report is per­se admissible under section 293 Cr.P.C. As per this report, the 

blood   found   on   the   clothes   of   the   prosecutrix   and   on   the   clothes   of   the 

accused   matched   as   both   are   shown   as   'B'   group.     Ld.   Counsel   for   the 

accused had argued that this report is not conclusive since even the blood 

gauze of the accused has been grouped as 'B' in the report which means that 

the   blood   on   the   clothes   may   be   of   the   accused   himself   and   not   of   the 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 19 of 24
 prosecutrix as it may be a coincident that the blood group of prosecutrix and 

the accused were same.  Hence, the FSL result is not conclusive to prove that 

the blood on the clothes of the accused was of the prosecutrix.  

45.           I have heard the submissions and have seen the FSL result.  The 

blood   was   detected   on   the   earthy   concrete   soil,   earth   control   on   the 

underwear of the prosecutrix, on the baby shirt of the prosecutrix, in the 

blood gauze, in the pant of the accused and in the blood gauze of the accused 

and all these exhibits are being grouped as 'B' group.   The human semen 

stains however, were found on the underwear of the victim, her micro slides 

and in the penile swab of the accused but the result were inconclusive on the 

underwear of the prosecutix and there was no reaction on the penile swab of 

the accused. I have also seen the MLC of the accused.   This MLC of the 

accused shows that there were only one abrasion on the right knee of the 

accused and no other external injuries were found upon the person of the 

accused. There is no report of fresh bleeding from the person of the accused 

so as to conclude that the blood which was found on clothes of prosecutrix, 

earthy material belonged to him only. Since, there was no bleeding on the 

person of the accused, there was no chance that his pant may have blood 

stains.  Further, it was for the accused to explain how his blood was there on 

his pant without any injury on his person, which he failed to explain. Hence, 

the FSL result in clear terms connects the accused with the offence. The 

blood stains on his pant may lead to an irresistible conclusion that the blood 

stains were of the blood of the prosecutrix and no one else. Though, it is a 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 20 of 24
 coincidence that the blood group of the prosecutrix as well as the accused 

were same but in view of the MLC of the accused who was not having any 

fresh   bleeding,   it   can   be   opined   that   the   blood   on   his   clothes   were   of 

prosecutrix.  
Identity of the accused:­

46.            The prosecutrix has identified the accused in the court. In her 

statement before the magistrate, she had even named the accused. She had 

denied all the suggestions that she had named the accused at the instance of 

the police.  She had stated that she had earlier seen the accused prior to the 

incident.  On this point her sister PW­9 had also corroborated her statement. 

The accused has refused to join the TIP.  As per the statement of the accused 

the   refusal   was   on   the   ground   that   the   accused   has   been   shown   to   the 

witnesses however, all the suggestions which were put in this regard to the 

prosecutrix   as   well   as   to   her   sister   PW­9   are   denied   by   them.     The 

prosecutrix is a minor child of 5 years and her sister PW­9 is a minor child of 

10   years.     In   his   defence   the  accused  had  not  taken  any  plea  as  to  why 

prosecutrix aged 5 years will falsely implicate the accused in this case.  The 

accused has not taken any plea of previous enmity with the prosecutrix or 

her family so as to falsely implicate the accused.  The adverse inference of 

refusal to join the TIP shall be taken against the accused. From the statement 

of the prosecutrix coupled with his connection with the offence on the basis 

of FSL result leaves no scope to dispute the involvement of the accused in 

this case. 
SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 21 of 24
 Defence of the accused:­

47.           The accused in his statement has stated that he has been falsely 

implicated in this case. He has stated that police gave beatings to his father 

and brother and threatened him that if he will not sign some papers they will 

falsely implicate his brother and father.   However, nothing is mentioned in 

the statement as to why the police gave beatings to his father and brother and 

why the threats were extended to him. Further, no evidence is led by the 

accused in support of these allegations. Hence, in view of the testimony of 

the prosecutrix duly corroborated by medical evidence and other witnesses 

the defence of the accused does not sound probable.     

48.           Accordingly,   from   the   statement   of   prosecutrix   PW­6   duly 

corroborated   by   her   medical   record,   the   prosecution   has   proved   all   the 

ingredients of offence of rape. It is proved that sexual intercourse was done 

without   the   consent   of   the   prosecutrix.   Further   as   per   the   medical 

examination report of accused proved by concerned doctor there was nothing 

to suggest that accused was incapable of performing sexual intercourse.  

The offence of simple and grievous hurt:­

49.           Section   319   IPC  provides  that  whosoever causes  bodily pain, 

decease or infirmity to any person is said to cause hurt.   The offence of 

causing hurt voluntarily is punishable under section 323 IPC.  

              So far as offence of grievous hurt is concerned, section 320 IPC 

has given kinds of hurt which are designated as grievous.   The offence of 



SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 22 of 24
 grievous hurt is punishable under section 325 IPC.  

               In the present case, the prosecutrix was medically examined by 

PW­7 Dr. Prajnanika Gurung who proved the MLC.   She has deposed that 

she had examined the child in the presence of Dr. Kinshana Jain and there 

were scratch marks over face, neck, abdomen(lower), back (generalized) and 

both legs.  On local examination, the hymen was torn.  There was fresh tear . 

Perineal tear was present. Bleeding was present. Rectal Mucosa was intact. 

The   nature   of   external   injuries   were   opined   as   simple   and   the   vaginal 

injuries  were  opined   as   grievous  and thereafter the  child was  referred to 

pediatric surgeon for repair of the vaginal injuries.  This witness PW­7 has 

been cross examined on behalf of the accused but nothing adverse came out 

in the cross examination of PW­7 so as to doubt the authenticity of the MLC 

prepared by the doctor.  The child was medically examined immediately after 

the   rape.     The  offence   of   rape   is   duly   proved   against   the   accused.     The 

injuries were caused to the victim during the committing of offence of rape 

by the accused.  Even the victim has identified the accused and deposed that 

the accused had committed 'galat kaam' with her. The medical evidence/FSL 

has also connected the accused with the offence as discussed above in the 

judgment.  In view of this it is duly proved that the accused had voluntarily 

caused simple hurt as well as grievous hurt to the victim. 

50.            In view of the above said discussion, prosecution has been fully 

able to prove its case under Section 376(2)(f)/323/325 against the accused as 

the prosecutrix is beyond 5 years of age.  Hence, accused Dalip @ Jugnu is 

SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 23 of 24
 held guilty and convicted for the offence under Section 376(2)(f)/323/325 

IPC.
ANNOUNCED IN THE OPEN COURT                                            
ON 25.10.2013.
                                                     ( RENU BHATNAGAR )
                                                      DESIGNATED JUDGE
                                                      TADA/POTA/MCOCA
                                               ASJ­01/SE/SAKET COURTS/
                                                            NEW DELHI




SC No. 149/10                  State Vs Dalip @ Jugnu                      Page No. 24 of 24
 