               The facts in brief of the prosecution case are
that    on      24.07.2011       ---------------------------------------------
X---------------------------------------------------------- , herein after
referred to as the complainant, lodged a missing report at
PS Nand Nagri stating that his wife ------Y--------, herein after
referred to as the prosecutrix, aged about 25 years went to
Sunder Nagri Market at 5.00 PM on 22.07.2011 but she did
not return back. That information was recorded vide DD
No. 9A on that day. The police filled in Missing Person Form
and tried       to search     the prosecutrix          but failed. On

SC No.103/13                  State vs. Salim                 Page 1 of 36
 29.07.2011, the prosecutrix arrived at Police Station and IO
recorded her statement. She alleged that on 22.07.2011 at
5.00 PM, she had left her house for Shani Bazar, Sunder
Nagari, Delhi for buying vegetables. At 5.15 PM, Salim,
herein after referred to as the accused, who was her
tenant, met her in that market and asked where she was
going? She replied that she was going to buy vegetables.
He started walking with her and also offered Pepsi. On
drinking Pepsi, she felt unbearable pain in her head. She
did not know where the accused had taken her thereafter
but when she regained her consciousness, she found
herself in a room. The accused had confined her in the said
room for about 6 days. On 28.07.2011, the accused
committed wrong act with her. On the same day, her
husband, the complainant brought her back from that room
which was situated in Khassi Colony, Ghaziabad, UP. Due to
fear, she did not tell all the incidents to her husband. She
narrated the incidents to her husband on 29.07.2011 and
then he brought her to the PS. She was taken to GTB
hospital where she was medically examined. Doctor
obtained her samples and handed over to Lady Constable
Anita who brought her for the purpose of medical
examination. She handed over the samples to W/ASI Vidya
Rawat, herein after referred to as the IO, and she seized
the same vide seizure memo and thereafter, deposited the

SC No.103/13            State vs. Salim          Page 2 of 36
 same in the Malkhana. IO also inspected the place of
incident and prepared site plan. The accused was arrested
on the same day and his arrest memo and personal search
memo were prepared. He was interrogated. He was also
taken to GTB hospital where he was medically examined.
Doctor opined that there was nothing to suggest that he
was incapable of doing sexual intercourse. Doctor also
obtained his samples and handed over the same to
Constable Sonu Kadian, who took him to GTB hospital. He
handed over the samples to IO, who seized the same vide
separate seizure memo and deposited in the Malkhana.
The     prosecutrix   was      produced          before   Ld.     M.M.    on
30.07.2011 for recording of her statement u/s 164 of Code
of Criminal Procedure, herein after referred to as the Code.
Samples were sent to FSL and FSL report was obtained.
After completion of investigation, IO filed a charge sheet
against the accused for his trial for the offences punishable
u/s 365/366/343/328/376 IPC.
2.             Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate after supplying of
copies of charge sheet and documents to the accused
committed this case to the court of sessions and the case,
was assigned       to Sh. Surinder Kumar Sharma by Hon'ble
Addl.    Sessions     Judge,     Incharge        North    East      District,
Karkardooma Courts, Delhi.
 3.             The court vide order dated 24.01.2012 opined
that prima facie case for framing of charge for the offences
punishable u/s 328/343/365/366/376 IPC was made out
against    the    accused.     Therefore,       charge   against    the
accused for his trial for the said offences was framed and
read over to him. The accused pleaded not guilty and
claimed trial.
4.             The prosecution, in order to prove its case
examined ASI Dal Chand as PW1; Ct. Sonu Kadian as PW2;
prosecutrix Ms. ------Y---- as PW3; HC Manoj as PW4; ------
X---- as PW5 and Rakesh as PW6.
5.             Vide   order   No.20/372-512/F.3.(4)/ASJ/01/2013
dated 04.01.2013, on constitution of Special Fast Track
Courts for trial of sexual offences, Hon'ble District &
Sessions Judge, transferred this case to this court.
6.             The prosecution further examined lady Ct. Anita
as PW7; Ms. Suchi Laler, Ld. M.M. AS PW8; Ct. Dharam
Singh as PW9; Dr. Ritu, Senior Research Associate, GTB
Hospital, Dehi as PW-10; ASI Begh Raj Singh as PW-11; Dr.
Sushma, CMO GTB hospital; Anwari as PW-13; SI Rajeev
Kumar as PW-14 and ASI Vidya Rawat as PW-15.
 7.             After closing of prosecution evidence statement
of the accused u/s 313 of the Code was recorded. All the
material and incriminating evidence was put to him.
Accused admitted that he was residing in premises No.
------------------------------------Y------------------------------------, of the
prosecutrix         as   a tenant with his wife and a child. He
denied rest of the evidence and pleaded that he was
innocent. The accused opted not to lead any defence
evidence.
8.             After closing of evidence by prosecution and
recoding of statement of the accused, I have heard
arguments addressed by Ld. Additional Public Prosecutor
for the State and Ld. Defence Counsel for the accused and
perused file.
9.             In    order    to     prove     its   case    that    accused
committed an offence of causing hurt by means of poisons
etc., punishable u/s 328 IPC, prosecution has to prove
firstly, that the accused administered either poison or
stupefying, intoxicating or unwholesome drug in the pepsi
cold drink of the prosecutrix; and secondly, that cold drink
was offered to the prosecutrix with the intention to commit
or to facilitate the commission of an offence or knowingly it

SC No.103/13                       State vs. Salim                Page 5 of 36
 to be likely that they will thereby cause hurt to the
prosecutrix.
10.            In   order    to     prove     its    case    that   accused
committed an offence of kidnapping, abducting or inducing
woman to compel marriage, etc. punishable u/s 366 IPC,
prosecution has to prove firstly that the prosecutrix was
either   kidnapped          or    abducted      by     the   accused     and
secondly, the prosecutrix was abducted and kidnapped
with the intention that the prosecutrix may be compelled
or knowing it to be likely that she will be compelled to
marry any person against her will or in order that she may
be forced to do illicit intercourse.
11.            In   order    to     prove     its    case    that   accused
committed an offence of kidnapping or abducting with
intent   secretly      and        wrongfully        confining   a   person,
punishable u/s 365 IPC, prosecution has to prove firstly
that the prosecutrix was either kidnapped or abducted by
the accused and secondly, the prosecutrix was abducted or
kidnapped with the intention to cause the prosecutrix to be
secretly and wrongfully confined.
12.            In order to prove its case against the accused
for the offence of rape punishable u/s 376 IPC, prosecution

SC No.103/13                      State vs. Salim               Page 6 of 36
 has to prove firstly, that sexual intercourse was committed
with the prosecutrix; and secondly, that sexual intercourse
was committed with her forcibly against her will and
without her consent.
13.            It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Additional
Public Prosecutor that prosecution witnesses have proved
all the offences against the accused beyond       reasonable
suspicion and shadow of doubt and the accused is liable to
be held guilty and convicted for all the alleged offences.
Delay in Reporting the matter to the Police
14.            It has been argued by Ld. defence Counsel that
there is delay in reporting the matter to the police. As per
statement of PW5 ------X----, husband of the prosecutrix,
prosecutrix went missing on 22.7.2011 after 5 p.m. but as
per statement of PW11, the DD entry regarding her
missing was recorded only on 24.7.2011. He further argued
that as per statement of PW5 ------X---- the prosecutrix was
recovered from the alleged place of occurrence at Khasi
Colony, Ghaziabad on 28.7.2011 in the morning at about 5
a.m. but he did not inform the police about the recovery of
the prosecutrix and produced the prosecutrix on the next
day. Thus, there is again delay of one day in reporting the
matter to the police.
 15.             On the other hand, Ld. Additional Public
Prosecutor submitted that there is no unreasonable delay
in reporting the matter to the police and if there is, it has
been properly and reasonably explained. As per statement
of PW5 husband of the prosecutrix, the prosecutrix was
scared. She did not tell all the incidents to her husband
promptly and in these circumstances, delay in producing
the prosecutrix before the police had taken place.
16.            On perusal of cross examination of PW3, I find
that she admitted that at the time when her husband got
her rescued, some persons of locality i.e. about 10-12
persons gathered there. In that gathering no police official
was present. Police was not called at the spot. She was
perplexed and nervous so she did not narrate the incident
to anyone. They had gone to the P.S. in the evening on the
same day. On that day her statement was recorded by the
police.
17.            PW5 on this aspect deposed that on 22.7.2011
his wife namely ------Y---- Begum had gone to purchase
some house hold items from Sunder Nagri market at about
5 p.m. but she did not return back. He lodged missing
report giving the description of his wife. He further

SC No.103/13               State vs. Salim        Page 8 of 36
 deposed that on 28.7.2011 he reached at Khassi Colony,
Rajeev Nagar, Ghaziabad. He found his wife ------Y---- in a
room at Khassi Colony. He brought her back. His wife told
him that accused present in the court made her to drink
sedative pepsi and thereafter she was taken in a room. In
cross examination PW5 stated that on 22.7.2011 he did not
make any call at number 100. He went alone to the P.S. on
the next day at about 9.30/10 a.m. when his report was
recorded in the P.S. On 22.7.2011 police officials advised
him to see his wife at her parental house and other
relative. On 23.7.2011 when his missing report was
recorded in the P.S., he remained present in the P.S. till 2
p.m. but he did not remember when his missing report was
recorded.      He did not make any complaint against the
police officials between 23.7.2011 to 28.7.2011. He also
deposed that he returned back to his house on 28.7.2011.
On that day he made a call at number 100 about recovery
of his wife but he did not remember the time when it was
made. After about 15 minutes, police arrived at his house.
He could not tell the name of the police officials who
reached at his house.        He also informed SI Rajeev
regarding recovery of his wife on that day after reaching of
PCR officials at his office. SI Harsh and Rajeev visited his
house in the evening but he did not recall the exact time of
their visit and they remained at his house for about 10-15

SC No.103/13             State vs. Salim         Page 9 of 36
 minutes. They did not reduce anything in writing.
18.            The arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel that
delay has not been explained, is not convincing. Although
there is some delay in reporting the matter to police as the
report was lodged on 24.7.2011 in spite of the fact that the
prosecutrix was missing from her house since 22.7.2011
and the prosecutrix was produced at the police station on
29.7.2011 in spite of the fact that she was recovered on
28.7.2011 yet this delay is liable to be ignored in view of
principles of law laid down in case of State of Punjab v.
Gurmit Singh And Others, 1996 SCC (Cri) 316 wherein Apex
Court observed that:
19.            Ld. Defence Counsel further argued that there
are various contradictions in the testimonies of prosecution
witnesses      and     those       contradictions      have    made       the
testimony of the prosecution witnesses unreliable and
untrustworthy.
20.            On    the    other     hand,      Ld.   Additional       Public
Prosecutor for the State argued that testimony of the
prosecutrix      and       other    witlessness        are   reliable     and
trustworthy. She also argued that minor discrepancies and
embellishments, if any, may be ignored in view of the
principles of law laid down in case of State v. Jai Hind, 2012
VI AD (Delhi) 170 wherein it was held that:
21.            On analysing the prosecution witness, I find
contradictions in the testimonies of prosecution witnesses


SC No.103/13                State vs. Salim             Page 12 of 36
 on the following points.
Regarding Tenancy of the Accused
22.            The prosecutrix PW3 on this aspect deposed
that accused Salim who met her on 22.7.2011 at about
5.15 p.m. was her tenant. In her statement EX.PW3/C
recorded before Ld. M.M. she also deposed that on
22.7.2011 at 5 p.m. she had gone to market and their
tenant Salim came there. Her husband PW5 on this aspect
deposed that on 28.7.2011 there was no tenant in his
house. Statement of mother of PW5 and mother in law of
PW3 is silent on this aspect.
Administration of Sedative Substance to the Prosecutrix
and committing of Rape on her

23.            The prosecutrix in her statement EX.PW3/B
made to the police stated that on 22.7.2011 at about 5
p.m. she had gone to Shani Bazar, Sunder Nagri to take
some vegetable. At about 5.15 p.m. her tenant Salim met
her in the market and asked her where she was going? She
replied that she was going to buy vegetable. He started
walking with her and offered pepsi.          She took the same.
Suddenly she felt headache. Thereafter, accused Salim
took her to somewhere and when she regained her
consciousness she found herself in a room where Salim

SC No.103/13               State vs. Salim           Page 13 of 36
 kept her forcibly for six days and on 28.7.2011 he
committed wrong act forcibly with her. On the same day,
her husband ----X-- came in that room which was situated
in Khassi Colony, Ghaziabad, U.P. and took her with him.
24.            In the statement before Ld. M.M., she stated
that on 22.7.2013 at about 5 p.m. her tenant Salim came
from back side and asked as to where she was going? She
replied that she was going to buy vegetables and he
started walking along with her. A pepsi was in his hand and
he asked her to drink pepsi. She refused to drink. However,
Salim handed over the pepsi in her hand and also told her
that he was also going to her home. After drinking the
pepsi, she felt giddiness. She also felt intoxicated. He took
her through some streets but she could not recognize and
when she regained her consciousness she found herself in
a room. Then accused came there having a knife in his
hand and he forcibly committed wrong act with her. She
was lying and accused Salim raped on her and asked her to
take food. She declined. However, he made her to eat
rajma.   She      again   became     unconscious.   Day   before
previous day her husband came there after searching her.
She heard his voice and he took her to her house.
25.            In the court as PW3 she deposed that on

SC No.103/13               State vs. Salim           Page 14 of 36
 22.7.2011 at about 5 p.m. at Shani Bazar, Sunder Nagri
Salim who was her tenant came to her and asked her as to
where she was going? She replied that she had come to
buy vegetable. He asked her to drink pepsi and she drank
pepsi. All of a sudden she started feeling giddiness. She did
not know where she was taken. Accused Salim kept her in
confinement for six days in lock. On 28.7.2011 accused
forcibly committed sexual intercourse with her. Prior to
committing sexual intercourse, he had threatened her by
showing knife. On that day her husband ----X---- came there
in her search and on hearing his voice she replied and her
husband brought her from Kachchi Colony, Ghaziabad. She
did not narrate the incident to her husband due to fear on
that day.
26.            Thus, the statement made by the prosecutrix to
the police is silent about showing of knife or giving of
beating which was deposed before this court but fact of
beating was also not disclosed before Ld. M.M. There is
also contradiction in her statement on the point of forcibly
made to eat her rajma. This was neither stated in the
statement before the police nor before this court. In
addition to, in the statement EX.PW3/B made to police and
as PW3 made before this court she categorically stated
that she was raped on 28.7.2011.             Her statement

SC No.103/13               State vs. Salim        Page 15 of 36
 EX.PW3/C        is    silent    about    date           of   making   physical
relations/committing            wrong      act.          Moreover,    in    the
statement EX.PW3/B she only mentioned that wrong act
was committed with her by Salim but in the statements
before Ld. M.M. and before this court she also deposed that
sexual intercourse was committed with her.
27.            It    has   to   be    seen,        if    the   contradictions,
inconsistencies found in the testimonies of the prosecution
witnesses and particularly, narrated herein above are of
such a nature which may create reasonable suspicion and
shadow of doubt or these are of minor in nature and liable
to be ignored.
28.            In my view the inconsistencies found in the
testimonies of the prosecutrix and her husband, etc are not
material. These contradictions are not of such a nature
which may create reasonable suspicion and shadow of
doubt in the truthfulness of the prosecution case. In my
opinion such inconsistencies are likely to happen in every
case and are liable to be ignored in view of the principles
of law laid down in case of State v. Jai Hind (supra) and in
case of Appabhai and another v. State of Gujarat, AIR 1988
SC 696,wherein the Apex Court in paragraph 13 observed:
29.            My decision further finds support by a case
Pardeep @ Sonu v. State, 2011 [2] JCC 1031, wherein the
Delhi High Court observed that:
30.            Ld.   Defence     Counsel         further   argued     that
accused was falsely implicated in this case. There was a
dispute between the prosecutrix and her husband. She

SC No.103/13                   State vs. Salim               Page 17 of 36
 might have left her house on her own and due to previous
enmity with the accused, he was falsely implicated in this
case.
31.            On perusal of examination in chief and cross
examination of prosecutrix I find that her statement is
silent regarding dispute between her and her husband.
Even it was not suggested to the witness that she left her
house due to matrimonial dispute with her husband or she
falsely implicated the accused due to previous enmity.
PW5,    the     husband   of   the    prosecutrix,   denied     the
suggestion that on 22.7.2011 he gave severe beatings to
his wife or that due to that reason his wife left his house
and started living with his sister and brother in law. He also
denied the suggestion that he again gave beatings to his
wife on 28.7.2011 and due to that reason she again left her
house while saying that she would not live with him or that
she started living with her sister and brother in law in
Punjab. Ld. Defence Counsel has failed to cross examine
the husband on the point of matrimonial dispute between
him and his wife or on the aspect of his previous enmity
with the accused. Thus, it is held that arguments of Ld.
Defence Counsel on this aspect is not convincing.
Causing hurt by means of poison, etc.

SC No.103/13               State vs. Salim            Page 18 of 36
 32.            Prosecutrix PW3 on this aspect deposed that on
22.7.2011 at about 5 p.m. p.m. she had gone to Shani
Bazar, Sunder Nagri to purchase vegetable. At about 5.15
p.m. accused Salim who was her tenant met her in the
market and asked her where she was going? She replied
that she was going to buy vegetable. He started walking
with her and offered a pepsi cold drink and asked her to
drink pepsi and she took the pepsi. After taking pepsi, all of
a sudden she sustained unbearable headache. She did not
know where she was taken by the accused. When she
regained her consciousness she found herself in a room. In
cross examination she stated that accused was already
having with him a pepsi bottle. It was a plastic bottle of
normal size. She took the pepsi from bottle itself. She had
only taken the pepsi despite her offer, accused did not take
the same. Initially she refused to take pepsi but on the
insistence of the accused, she had taken the same and he
had told her that he would also accompany to her house.
She had started dizziness for some time but in less than
five minutes. Thereafter, she sat down after covering a
little distance. She could not make any complaint to
anyone as she was not feeling well. She denied the
suggestion that no such incident had taken place or that
she did not consume the pepsi or she did not fell dizziness.
As she became unconscious so she could not tell as to how

SC No.103/13               State vs. Salim        Page 19 of 36
 she was removed from that place by the accused.
33.            PW5, husband of the prosecutrix on this aspect
deposed that on 28.7.2011 he reached Khassi Colony, Rajiv
Nagar Ghaziabad in search of his wife. He found his wife in
a room at Khassi Colony and he brought her back. His wife
told him that accused present in the court had made her to
drink sedative pepsi in Sunder Nagar Market and thereafter
she was taken in a room.
reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt that accused
made the prosecutrix to drink pepsi containing sedative or
unwholesome drug and after drinking the same she lost
her consciousness and also felt severe head ache and thus
the accused caused hurt to the prosecutrix by means of
poisonous substance, etc.


Abducting or inducting woman for marriage etc. and secret
and wrongful confinment

35.            The prosecutrix PW3 on this aspect deposed
that after drinking the pepsi she became unconscious and
when she regained her consciousness she found herself in

SC No.103/13                   State vs. Salim                     Page 20 of 36
 a room. She did not know where she was taken. When she
regained consciousness she found herself in a room.
Accused Salim kept her forcibly in that room for six days in
lock. In cross examination, she stated that she did not
remember       the   duration   after       which   she     regained
consciousness,       it may be after 2-3 hours. When she
regained consciousness it was very early morning. She
could not tell exact time as she was not wearing watch.
She was not knowing at that time the room where she was
taken but now she can locate that room and that room was
situated in Khassi Colony, Seemapuri. When she was
retuning from that place she came to know about that
place on the way. She was confined in that room for about
5-6 days. She could not make complaint to any person as
she was not allowed to come out from that room. The room
in which she was confined was around 10-12 ft. and it was
a brick made house. She was not aware as to who was the
owner of that room. She did not observe that house
perhaps it was 2/3 storeyed building. She did not have
knowledge if other persons were residing as tenant in
surrounding area. There was no kitchen in that room. There
was toilet inside the room in a corner. She denied the
suggestion that she was not taken away by Salim
anywhere. When her husband got her rescued some
persons of the locality i.e. around 10-12 persons gathered

SC No.103/13              State vs. Salim                 Page 21 of 36
 there near the house but no police official was among
them.
36.            Husband of the prosecutrix PW5 on this aspect
deposed that on 28.7.2011 he reached Khasi Colony,
Rajeev Nagar, Ghaziabad in search of his wife. She was
found in a room at Khasi Colony. He brought her back. In
cross examination, he denied the suggestion that on
22.7.2011 he gave severe beating to his wife and due to
that reason his wife left his house and started living with
her sister and brother in law or that he had brought his
wife on    28.7.2011 from Punjab or that his wife told him
that she would not live with him. He stated that on
28.7.2011 he left his house at about 4 a.m. in search of his
wife in Seemapuri as first wife of the accused was residing
there. While searching his wife from Seemapuri, he went to
Khasi Colony. He made enquiries from two persons and
they both told him about his wife and told the directions of
said house from where his wife was recovered. He did not
make any call from the said gali to the police. He did not
know the house from where his wife was recovered. One
old lady had opened the door of the said house. He could
not tell the area of that house. When he entered into the
house he found his wife there. He remained present in that
house for about 10-15 minutes. He did not notice as to

SC No.103/13               State vs. Salim       Page 22 of 36
 whether there were any tenant in the said house or not. He
did not inform the local police. He did not notice whether
the toilet and bathroom were there in that house? In that
house there were two ladies. There was another old lady
and one was his wife. His wife was looking perturbed.
37.            PW6, owner of the room from where the
prosecutrix was recovered, deposed that he was the owner
of the house No. -------------------------Z-------------------------------.
Accused Saleem present in court was known to him. Last
year accused came to him alongwith one lady and told that
said lady was daughter of his uncle. He asked a room in
his house and accordingly, he gave one room on rent.
Accused remained in his house for 2-3 days. After 2-3 days
of his leaving, police officials reached at his house and
police enquired about that lady and he came to know that
that lady was not daughter of his uncle and she was wife of
another person. As PW6 could not tell the detail about the
date, etc., he was cross examined by Ld. Addl. Public
Prosecutor of State after declaring him hostile and in cross
examination he admitted that accused was with him
alongwith one lady on 22.7.2011 and name of that lady
was ------Y---- and police came to his house on 29.7.2011
alongwith that lady and accused and that accused had
kept that lady forcefully in that room. In cross examination

SC No.103/13                  State vs. Salim                Page 23 of 36
 conducted by Ld. Defence Counsel he stated that when
accused came to his house for hiring a room on rent he
was not present at his house and his wife was present
there and she provided rented accommodation to him. On
that day when he came back to his house at about 7 p.m.,
the accused was not present in the tenanted room and the
room was found locked and he came at abut 8-9 p.m. His
wife allowed the accused to take room on rent alongwith
one lady as the accused told her that said lady was
daughter of his uncle. Room was hired @ Rs.1,000/- p.m.
However, no document was executed. Accused Saleem and
that lady used the toilet situated at roof                     of first floor.
During the stay of that lady with the accused he never
heard any noise or cry.
38.            PW15 on this aspect deposed that she alongwith
prosecutrix reached at --------------------Z-------------------------
where on her pointing out site plan EX.PW15/B was
prepared.      In    cross   examination         she     stated     that    on
29.7.2011 at about 3.30 p.m. she went to Rajiv Nagar. It
took   them         about    1-1/2   to   2      hours    in     completing
proceedings at Rajiv Nagar. The area of that house was
about 50 sq. yards. She could not tell the storey of that
house as she visited on the ground floor of that house.
There were two rooms.
 39.            On the basis of evidence available on record
and particularly discussed herein above, it is held that
prosecution      has   established    beyond     any   reasonable
suspicion and shadow of doubt that the prosecutrix was
abducted after making her to drink sedative pepsi and she
was secretly and wrongfully confined in a room at Khasi
Colony.
Sexual intercourse/rape       with    the    prosecutrix   by   the
accused.
40.            The prosecutrix PW3 on this aspect deposed
that on 28.7.2011 accused committed sexual intercourse
with her. Prior to committing sexual intercourse with her
she was beaten by the accused and she was threatened by
showing her a knife. In cross examination she denied the
suggestion that no such incident had taken place.
41.            PW5 on this aspect deposed that his wife the
prosecutrix told him that accused present in the court
made her to drink sedative pepsi and took her in a room.
She further told that accused Salim forcibly raped her.
42.            PW7 on this aspect deposed that on 29.7.2011
she was posted at P.S. Nand Nagri as constable and she

SC No.103/13               State vs. Salim             Page 25 of 36
 alongwith WSI Vidya Rawat had taken the prosecutrix to
GTB Hospital for her medical examination and after her
medical examination sexual assault kit, outer closing
packed     alongwith    sample     seal,     the   sealed   parcels
alongwith sample seal were received from the hospital
which were seized vide memo EX.PW5/A which was signed
by her at point B. In cross examination she stated that they
reached at the hospital at abut 2/2.30 p.m.


43.            PW8 Ld. M.M. on this aspect deposed that on
30.7.2011, she recorded statement of ------Y----, wife of ------
X---- u/s 164 of the Code. She proved her statement
EX.PW3/C. On perusal of statement EX.PW3/C, I find that
the prosecutrix, inter alia, stated that accused Salim came
to her with a knife and committed wrong act with her.
When she was lying accused laid down on her and inserted
his penis inside her.
44.            PW10 on this aspect deposed that on 29.7.2011
she was working in GTB Hospital as Senior Resident. On
that day at about 1.30 p.m. ------Y---- w/o ------X---- aged 25
years was brought by lady Ct. Anita Bhagat for her medical
examination with the alleged history of rape by Salim with
history of missing from the house since 22.7.2011. After
giving of sedative she was taken to some place where he

SC No.103/13               State vs. Salim             Page 26 of 36
 had sexual intercourse with her once. Patient had taken
bath and brought all the previous clothes when she was
with accused Salim. On her local examination she found no
redness, congestion, tear pubic hair not matted, hymen old
torn. MLC was proved as EX.PW3/A.
45.            PW12 on this aspect deposed that on 29.7.2011
she was working as CMO, GTB Hospital. On that day Dr.
Amit Kumar Sharma prepared MLC No. C-4364/11 under his
supervision. The MLC was proved as EX.PW12/A. On
perusal of MLC, I find that it was opined by the doctor that
there was nothing indicative that accused was incapable
of performing sexual intercourse. PW15 IO proved various
memos and also proved the FSL result EX.PW15/D &
EX.PW15/E.
46.            On analysing of evidence, I find that           MLC of
accused also contained that undergarment and blood
sample of the accused were taken into possession. In the
FSL result it has been mentioned that human semen was
detected on one dirty underwear EX.2, dirty pyjama EX.6a,
and one dirty lady shirt EX. 6b.         The evidence on record
and particularly discussed herein above, has further proved
beyond reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt that
the   accused      committed    sexual       intercourse    with     the

SC No.103/13               State vs. Salim                 Page 27 of 36
 prosecutrix forcibly without her consent and against her
will after threatening her and thus accused committed
offence of rape on the prosecutrix.
Reasons of Conclusions
47.            After considering the arguments of Ld. Addl.
Public Prosecutor for the State and Ld. Defence Counsel
and on analyzing the prosecution evidence on record,             I
come to the conclusion that prosecution has successfully
proved its case against the accused Salim beyond any
reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt that he
committed not only offence of causing hurt by poisonous
substance, offence of abducting or inducing a woman to
compel her marriage, etc. and offence of       secretly and
wrongfully confinement of an abducted person but also
he committed offence of rape. The reasons which support
my conclusion are firstly that the prosecution evidence on
record and particularly discussed herein above has proved
all the ingredients which are necessary for proving the
above mentioned offences.
48.            Secondly, the inconsistencies found in the
testimony of the prosecutrix and her husband are not
material. Such inconsistencies are likely to happen in every
case and are liable to be ignored.
 49.            Thirdly, the delay in reporting the matter to
police has been properly explained and the delay is liable
to be ignored.
50.            Fourthly, the testimony of prosecutrix has been
corroborated by other witnesses, firstly by her husband
PW6, PW-5 owner of the house where she was secretly and
wrongfully confined and raped, doctors who conducted
medical examination of prosecutrix and the accused and
opined that there was evidence of sexual assault on the
prosecutrix and accused was capable to perform sexual
intercourse.
51.            Fifthly, all the arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel
discussed herein above in detail have been found as not
convincing.
52.            Sixthly, there is nothing in cross examination of
prosecution witness which could create any reasonable
suspicion and shadow of doubt that the above mentioned
offences were not committed on the prosecutrix by the
accused.
53.            Seventhly, the other prosecution witnesses also

SC No.103/13                State vs. Salim          Page 29 of 36
 supported the testimony of the prosecutrix and further
corroborated the prosecution case. For example, PW1
proved copy of FIR EX.PW1/A and endorsement on the
rukka as EX.PW1/B. PW2 is the constable in whose
presence accused was arrested and his arrest memo
EX.PW2/A and personal search memo EX.PW2/B were
prepared and accused was taken to GTB Hospital for the
purpose of medical examination. He also proved seizure
memo regarding taking into possession sealed parcels and
samples vide memo EX.PW2/D. PW4 is the MHCM who
proved entries regarding deposit of case property and
sending over the same to FSL as EX.PW4/A, EX.PW4/B and
EX.PW4/C. PW9 is the constable who took the samples and
deposited the same to FSL vide RC No. 96/21. PW12 proved
handwriting of Dr. Amit Kumar Sharma on MLC EX.PW12/A
of accused Mohd. Salim. PW13 is the mother in law of the
prosecutrix. She told that prosecutrix had gone to market
to purchase vegetables but she did not return and she
could be traced only after 8/10 days. The prosecutrix told
her that accused Salim committed rape on her. PW14 is the
IO who partly investigated the case and arrested the
accused, prepared his arrest memo EX.PW2/A, personal
search memo EX.PW2/B and seized sealed parcels and
sample vide memo EX.PW2/D. PW15 is the main IO who
further supported the prosecution case and proved various

SC No.103/13           State vs. Salim         Page 30 of 36
 memos referred to herein above, besides proving her
endorsement        EX.W15/A     on     the      statement      of    the
prosecutrix EX.PW3/B, site plan of place of occurrence as
EX.PW15/B and FSL result as                   EX.PW15/D.    She also
prepared the charge sheet and filed it in the court. Thus,
prosecution case has also been supported by the police
and other witnesses.
54.            Eighthly, the prosecution evidence has achieved
the standard of proof of proving its case against the
accused Salim, as held in a case Ashok Narang v. State,
2012 II AD (Delhi) 481, wherein Delhi High Court has, inter
alia, held that testimony of a single witness in a criminal
trial is acceptable but the evidence must be free of any
blemish or suspicion, must impress the Court as wholly
truthful, and must appear to be natural and so convincing
that the Court has no hesitation in recording a conviction
solely on the basis of the testimony of a single witness.
The offence of rape is a heinous one which carries grave
implications for the accused if convicted. Therefore, the
degree of proof had to be of a high standard and not a
mere possibility of committing the said offence.
55.            Ninthly, there is no evidence on record showing
any motive or reason for the prosecutrix to depose against

SC No.103/13                State vs. Salim                Page 31 of 36
 the accused particularly when the accused Salim was her
tenant and he was living in her house with his wife and a
child unless he committed the alleged offences. The
accused        has   failed   to   prove     any   enmity    with     the
prosecutrix or her husband. My view finds support by a
case Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State of Gujarat,
(SC), 1983 A.I.R. (S.C.) 753, wherein the Apex Court
observed:
Therefore, It is bounden duty of this court to hold accused
Salim guilty and convict him.
                              CONCLUSION

SC No.103/13                   State vs. Salim              Page 32 of 36
 57.            Consequent upon above reasons, discussion and
evidence on record and particularly discussed here in
above, it is held that the prosecution has successfully
proved its case against the accused                 Salim beyond any
reasonable       suspicion   or   shadow       of    doubt     that     he
committed offence of causing hurt by poisonous substance
punishable u/s 328 IPC; offence of abducting or inducing a
woman to compel her marriage, etc. punishable u/s 366
IPC; offence of secretly and wrongfully confinement of an
abducted person punishable u/s 365 IPC; and offence of
rape punishable u/s 376 IPC. Resultantly, accused Salim is
held guilty and convicted for the offences punishable u/s
328/366/365/376 IPC.Announced in the Open Court
Dated: 31.10.2013             (DR. T.R. NAVAL)
                      Additional Sessions Judge, (SFTC)
                       Karkardooma Courts, Delhi




SC No.103/13                 State vs. Salim                 Page 33 of 36
 IN THE COURT OF DR. T. R. NAVAL, ADDITIONAL SESSIONS
JUDGE, (SPECIAL FAST TRACK COURT), EAST, NORTH EAST
& SHAHDARA DISTRICTS, KARKARDOOMA COURTS, DELHI

SC NO. 103/13
FIR No. 313/11
PS Nand Nagri
U/S 328/366/365/376 IPC

State          Versus     Mohd. Salim


                        ORDER ON SENTENCE
07.11.2013
Present:       Ms. Madhu Arora Addl. P.P. for the State.
               Convict/accused Mohd. Salim in J.C.
               Sh. A.K. Pandey, Advocate for the convict/
               accused.
               I have heard arguments on the quantum of
sentence and perused file.
2.             It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Defence
Counsel that accused/convict is a first offender; he is
young boy aged about 22 years; he is a poor person; he
has wife and a child of about 3 years of age to maintain;
he has widow mother and two minor sisters; he is a patient
of TB; and he has been in jail for more than 27 months. It
has been prayed that lenient view in sentence may be
taken.
3.             On the other hand, it has been argued on behalf
of   Ld.   Additional     Public    Prosecutor   that     deterrent
punishment may be awarded to the accused as case has

SC No.103/13                State vs. Salim             Page 34 of 36
 been proved by the prosecution against the accused.
4.             Keeping in view the submissions and all relevant
factors and circumstances in which the accused committed
crime, it would be just, fair and appropriate if moderate
view in sentence is taken.
5.             Accordingly, convict/accused Mohd. Salim is
sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for 4 years and
he is further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- in
default simple imprisonment for 1 year for the offence
punishable under section 328 IPC.
6.             Convict/accused     Mohd.      Salim   is   further
sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for 4 years and
he is further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- in
default simple imprisonment for 1 year for the offence
punishable under section 366 IPC.
7.             Convict/accused     Mohd.      Salim   is   further
sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for 3 years and
he is further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.4,000/- in
default simple imprisonment for 9 months for the offence
punishable under section 365 IPC.
8.             Convict/accused     Mohd.      Salim   is   further
sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 7 years
and he is further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.10,000/- in
default simple imprisonment for 18 months for the offence
punishable under section 376 IPC.
 9.             All the sentences will run concurrently.
10.            It is further ordered that if convict/accused
Mohd. Salim has undergone any period in judicial custody,
that period will be set off against the sentence as provided
U/s 428 Cr. P.C. As per judicial record, the accused has
been in JC since 29.7.2011 till date.
11.            Out of the fine amount, and after expiration of
the period of appeal, a sum of Rs.15,000/- will be payable
to    the   prosecutrix     as    compensation.    Besides     this
compensation, she will also be entitled to get other
compensation, if available to her under other laws.
12.            The convict/accused Mohd. Salim be sent to
imprisonment to serve the sentence.
13.            A copy each of judgment and order on sentence
is supplied to convict/accused Mohd. Salim free of cost.
               File be consigned to Record Room.