  1.                                      The   prosecution     story     in   brief   is   that   on   21.04.12   an 

              information was received in PCR from telephone No. 8780817553  that 

              one   girl   of   Sector   9   Rohini,   Razapur   Gaon,   Ram   Chowk,   near   Shiv 

              Mandir had not returned from school.  On that basis of said information 

              from   PCR,   DD   No.   68   B   recorded   in   PS   Prashant   Vihar   and   it   was 

              assigned to SI Kailash.   SI Kailash reached at the spot and recorded 

              statement of complainant Mohd. Mustak who stated that his daughter H 

              had not gone to school and is missing since 21.04.12 at about 2.30 pm. 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                        Page No.  1 of 30
                                                                                        2

              SI made  endorsement  on the said statement and prepared rukka and 

              recommended   the   same   for   registration   of   FIR   U/s   363   IPC   and 

              accordingly FIR of the present case was registered. 

                                          On   30.04.12   on   secret   information   IO   SI   Kailash 

              apprehended prosecutrix H accused Moh.d Azad from Japanese Park. 

              He arrested the accused Mohd. Azad.  He got the prosecutrix examined 

              from BSA Hospital, seized the exhibits handed over to him by doctor. He 

              got recorded the statement of prosecutrix u/s 164 Cr.P.C and recorded 

              statement of witnesses u/s 164 Cr.P.C during investigation. IO sent the 

              exhibits to FSL Rohini, collected age proof of the prosecutrix 'H' and 

              after completion of investigation filed charge sheet u/s 363/376 IPC and 

              put forth the accused for trial.  
       2.                                 Ld   MM   after   compliance   of   provision   u/s   207   Cr.P.C 

              committed the case to Sessions Court through Ld District Judge which 

              was assigned to this court. 
       3.                                 Vide   order   dated   31.08.12   charge   u/s   363/376   IPC   were 

              framed against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed 

              trial.
       4.                                 In order to prove his case prosecution examined 20 witness. 


State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                        Page No.  2 of 30
                                                                                        3
       5.                                 PW1 H is the prosecutrix, her testimony will be discussed 

              later on.
                                          PW2   Devender   Singh   is   the   school   teacher   and   proved 

              school admission record of H to prove her date of birth. 

                                          PW3   Mohd.   Mustak   is   the  maternal   uncle/mosa   of  the   H 

              and is the complainant. He deposed that prosecutrix H is the daughter 

              of her sali (sister in law) and was residing with him, and he deposed that 

              prosecutrix H has gone to school on 21 and did not return to home and 

              he reported the matter to police on 100No. and his  statement ExPW3/A 

              was recorded and FIR was registered. 
                                          PW4 SI Anita Sharma is last IO and a formal witness and 

              she only prepared charge sheet and filed it in the court, 

                                          PW5 Sh. Deepak Wasson Ld.MM recorded the statement of 

              H u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and proved the proceeding as ExPW5/A to ExPW5/C.

                                          PW6   Ct.   Rahul   participated   in   the   investigation   with   IO 

              Kailash   and   he   deposed   in   his   presence   IO   recorded   statement   of 

              Mohd.   Mustaq   and   prepared   rucca   which   he   took   to   PS   and   got 

              registered FIR

                                          PW7 Vijay Dhankar proved the ossification test report of the 


State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                        Page No.  3 of 30
                                                                                        4

              prosecutrix, Ex. PW7/A  

                                          PW8 Dr. Jaya Mishra came in place of Dr. Vidya Sinha who 

              medically examined the prosecutrix and prepared MLC Ex. PW8/A.

                                          PW9 W/Ct. Rachna participated in the investigation with IO 

              and is witness of recovery of the prosecutrix and proved her recovery 

              memo as ExPW6/A.
                                          PW10   Renu   is   the   school   teacher   proved   the   school 

              admission record containing date of birth of the prosecutrix H of her first 

              class.
                                          PW11,   HC   Prabhu   Lal   is   the   DO   recorded   the   FIR   Ex. 

              PW11/A. 
                                          PW12 Dr. Dinesh Varshney had examined the accused and 

              proved his MLC Ex. PW12/A,

                                          PW13 Ct. Mahesh is the DD writer   who recorded the DD 

              No. 68 B Ex. PW13/A,

                                          PW14 Ct. Praveen participated in the investigation with IO 

              and took rukka to PS and got the FIR registered,

                                          PW15   Dr.   Rajiv   Ranjan   also   is   a   member   of   board   who 

              conducted ossification test of prosecutrix H and proved report as Ex. 


State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                        Page No.  4 of 30
                                                                                        5

              PW17/A. 
                                          PW16 HC Karan Singh is the MHCM who proved the entry 

              of deposit of case property Ex. PW16/A and road certificate of sending 

              of case property to FSL as Ex. PW16/B and receipt of deposit of case 

              property as Ex. PW16/C.
                                          PW17 SI Kailash Kumar is the  IO. 
                                          PW18 Ct. Yogesh  deposited the sample in FSL Rohini.

                                          PW19 ASI Rani Jassal  is a formal witness and got recorded 

              the statement of prosecutrix u/s 164 Cr.P.C and also collected the record 

              of age of the prosecutrix from her school 

                                          PW20 Ms. Seema Scientific Officer, FSL Rohini and proved 

              the DNA report Ex. PX and PY.
       6.                                 After   completion   of   evidence,   statement   of   accused   was 

              recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C and all the incriminating evidence were put to 

              him.  He denied the same, however, he did not lead any evidence in his 

              defence. 
       7.                                 I   have   heard   Sh.   A.K.Gupta   APP   for   State   and   Sh. 

              Narender Kumar counsel for accused.  
       8.                                 The   accused   has   been   charged   for   kidnapping,   which   is 


State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                        Page No.  5 of 30
                                                                                        6

              defined in Section 361 IPC as under :­­ 

                                          361.   Kidnapping   from   lawful   guardianship.--Whoever 
                                          takes   or   entices   any   minor   under   1[sixteen]   years   of 
                                          age if a male, or under 2[eighteen] years of age if a 
                                          female,   or   any   person   of   unsound   mind,   out   of   the 
                                          keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor or person 
                                          of unsound mind, without the consent of such guardian, 
                                          is   said   to   kidnap   such   minor   or   person   from   lawful 
                                          guardianship. 
       9.                                 Further accused has also been charged for rape which is 

              punishable u/s. 376 IPC and rape has been defined in Section 375 IPC 

              as under:­

                                          375.   Rape.--A   man   is   said   to   commit   "rape"   who, 
                                          except in the case hereinafter excepted, has sexual 
                                          intercourse with a woman under circumstances falling 
                                          under any of the six following descriptions:--
                                          First.--Against her will.
                                          Secondly.--Without her consent.
                                          Thirdly.--With   her   consent,   when   her   consent   has 
                                          been obtained by putting her or any person in whom 
                                          she is interested in fear of death or of hurt.
                                          Fourthly.--With   her   consent,   when   the   man   knows 
                                          that he is not her husband, and that her consent is 
                                          given because she believes that he is another man to 
                                          whom   she   is   or   believes   herself   to   be   lawfully 
                                          married.
State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                        Page No.  6 of 30
                                                                                        7

                                          Fifthly.--With her consent, when, at the time of giving 
                                          such consent, by reason of unsoundness of mind or 
                                          intoxication or the administration by him personally or 
                                          through   another   of   any   stupefying   or   unwholesome 
                                          substance,   she   is   unable   to   understand   the   nature 
                                          and   consequences   of   that   to   which   she   gives 
                                          consent.
                                          Sixthly.--With   or   without   her   consent,   when   she   is 
                                          under sixteen years of age.
 Section   376   (2)(f)  IPC:   commits   rape  on   a  woman 
                                          when she is under twelve years of age.

       10.                                Hence from the definition of kidnapping it is evident that 

              the consent of a female is immaterial for offence u/s 363 IPC if she 

              is less than 18 years of age and in case of rape, if she is less than 

              16 years of age. Hence age of prosecutrix is quite relevant in such 

              cases. 
       11.                                As per judgment of Jarnail Singh V State of Haryana, 

              2013  VII   AD  (SC)  313  it  is  held   that  the  rule  12  of   the  Juvenile 

              Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Rules, 2007 to determine 

              the age will be applicable in cases of victim also where victim is a 

              child.     The   relevant   portion   of   the   judgment   is   reproduced   as 


State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                        Page No.  7 of 30
                                                                                        8

              below:­

                            20.  On the issue of determination of age of a minor,  
                            one only needs to make a reference to Rule 12 of the  
                            Juvenile   Justice   (Care   and   Protection   of   Children)  
                            Rules, 2007 (hereinafter referred to as the 2007 Rules).  
                            The afore stated 2007 Rules have been framed under  
                            Section   68(1)   of   the   Juvenile   Justice   (Care   and  
                            Protection   of   Children)   Act,   2000.   Rule   12   referred  
                            herein above read as under:
                            "12. Procedure to be followed in determination of age.?  
                            (1)   In   every   case   concerning   a   child   or   a   juvenile   in  
                            conflict with law, the court or the Board or as the case  
                            may be the Committee referred to in Rule 19 of these  
                            rules shall determine the age of such juvenile or child  
                            or a juvenile in conflict with law within a period of thirty  
                            days from the date of making of the application  for that  
                            purpose.
                                (2)The court or the Board or as the case may be the  
                                    Committee shall decide the juvenility or otherwise  
                                    of the juvenile or the child or as the case may be  
                                    the juvenile in conflict with law, prima facie on the  
                                    basis   of   physical   appearance   or   documents,   if  
                                    available, and send him to the observation home  
                                    or in jail.
                                (3)In   every   case   concerning   a   child   or   juvenile   in  

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                        Page No.  8 of 30
                                                                                        9

                                          conflict   with   law,   the   age   determination   inquiry  
                                          shall be conducted by the court or the Board or,  
                                          as the case may be, the Committee by seeking  
                                          evidence by obtaining­
                                          (a) (i) The matriculation or equivalent certificates,  
                                          if available; and in the absence whereof; 
                                          (ii) the date of birth certificate from the school  
                                          (other than a play school) first attended;   and in  
                                          the absence whereof;
                                          (iii) the birth certificate given by a corporation or  
                                          a municipal authority or a panchayat;
                                          (b) and only in the absence of either (i), (ii) or  
                                          (iii) of clause (a) above, the medical opinion will  
                                          be sought from a duly constituted Medical Board,  
                                          which will declare the age of juvenile or child. In  
                                          case   exact   assessment   of   the   age   cannot   be  
                                          done, the Court or the Board or, as the case may  
                                          be, the Committee for the reasons to be recorded  
                                          by   them,   may,   if   considered   necessary,   given  
                                          benefit   to   the   child   or   juvenile   by   considering  
                                          his/her age on lower side within the margin of one  
                                          year.  and,  while   passing   orders   in   such   case  
                                          shall,   after   taking   into   consideration   such  
                                          evidence   as   may   be   available,   or   the   medical  
                                          opinion, as the case may be, record a finding in  
                                          respect   of   his   age   and   either   of   the   evidence  


State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                        Page No.  9 of 30
                                                                                      10

                                      specified in any of the clauses (a) (i), (ii), (iii) or in  
                                      the   absence   whereof,   clause   (b)   shall   be   the  
                                      conclusive proof of the age as regard such child  
                                      or the juvenile in conflict with law.
                                   (4)If the age of a juvenile or child or the juvenile in  
                                      conflict with law is found to be below 18 years on  
                                      the  date   of   offence,  on  the  basis  of   any  or  the  
                                      conclusive   proof   specified   in   sub­rule   (3),   the  
                                      court   or   the   Board   or   as   the   case   may   be   the  
                                      Committee shall in writing pass an order stating  
                                      the age and declaring the status of juvenility or  
                                      otherwise, for the purpose of the Act and these  
                                      rules and and a copy of the order shall be given  
                                      to such juvenile or the person concerned.
                                   (5)Save   and   except   where,   further   inquiry   or  
                                      otherwise   is   required,   inter   alia,   in   terms   of  
                                      Section 7A, section 64 of the Act and these rules,  
                                      no further inquiry shall be conducted by the court  
                                      or   the   Board   after   examining   and   obtaining   the  
                                      certificate   or   any   other   documentary   proof  
                                      referred to in sub­rule (3) of this rule. 
                                   (6)The   provisions   contained   in   this   rule   shall   also  
                                      apply   to   those   dispose   off   cases,   where   the  
                                      status   of   juvenility   has   not   been   determined   in  
                                      accordance with the provisions contained in sub­
                                      rule (3) and the Act, requiring dispensation of the  


State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  10 of 30
                                                                                       11

                                          sentence   under   the   Act   for   passing   appropriate  
                                          order   in   the   interest   of   juvenile   in   conflict   with  
                                          law."
                                           Even   though,   rule   12   is   strictly   applicable  
                                           only to determine the age of a child in conflict  
                                           with law, we are of the view that the aforesaid  
                                           statutory   provision   should   be   the   basis   for  
                                           determining   age,   even   for   a   child   who   is   a  
                                           victim   of   crime.   For,   in   our   view,   there   is  
                                           hardly any difference in so far as the issue of  
                                           minority   is   concerned,   between   a   child   in  
                                           conflict with law, and a child who is a victim  
                                           of   crime.   Therefore,   in   our   considered  
                                           opinion, it would be just and appropriate to  
                                           apply   Rule   12   of   the   2007   Rules,   to  
                                           determine  the  age  of the  prosecutrix  VW -  
                                           PW6.
       12.                               Therefore,   in   view   of   the   aforesaid   rule   12,   the   age 

              recorded in the first class in school, is to be given most preference, 

              if same is available  and the court find it trustworthy and there is no 

              need to look for any other evidence for determination of age of a 

              person.
State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  11 of 30
                                                                                      12
       13.                               As per prosecution the 'H' was born on 07.01.2001. To 

              prove the same, the prosecution has relied upon the school record 

              of   the   prosecutrix   and   examined   PW­2   Devender   Singh­PGT 

              Vocational Education, Sarvodya Vidyalaya, Sector­9, Rohini.  PW­2 

              deposed   that   'H'   was   admitted   in   their   school   vide   admission 

              no.M4950   on   30.3.11   in   VI   class   and   she   was   admitted   in   their 

              school on the basis of school leaving certificate issued by Principal 

              MC   Primary   School,   Razpur   village.     He   proved   the   admission 

              register   as   ExPW2/A,   copy   of   SLC   as   ExPW2/B   and   copy   of 

              admission   form   as   ExPW2/C.     In   cross   examination   PW­2   has 

              stated   that   no   birth   certificate   issued   by   MCD   was   filed   in   their 

              school at the time of admission of prosecutrix and he do not know 

              on what basis her date of birth was mentioned in the MC Primary 

              School. 
       14.          Further the prosecution has relied upon testimony of PW­10 

              Renu Assistant Teacher MCD Primary School Sector 9 Razapur 

              Kalan, Delhi.   PW­10 has deposed that 'H' was admitted in their 

              school vide admission no.M4056  on 28.4.06 in class Ist B and her 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  12 of 30
                                                                                      13

              date of birth is 07.01.2001  and  she proved the admission register 

              as   ExPW10/D   and   admission   form   filled   by   uncle   of   'H'   namely 

              Mohd.   Mustaq   as  EXPW10/A  and   his declaration  as  EXPW10/B 

              and his affidavit as EXPW10/C.   In cross examination PW­10 has 

              stated admitted that no birth certificate issued by any Govt. Agency 

              was filed.
       15.                               I do not find any reason to disbelieve the entry of school 

              record   which was made in the year 2006.   However I am agree 

              with the contention of Ld. Defense counsel that since there is no 

              basis for recording the age   of H in school except the affidavit of 

              father of 'H' it cannot be ruled out that lower age might have been 

              given by parents at the time of admission in school. In this regard I 

              rely upon Birad Mal Singhvi V Anand Purohit 1988 AIR 1796.   It is 

              known   fact   that   lower   age   is   given   at   the   time   of   admission   in 

              school   if   child   is   above   the   prescribed   age   for   admission   in   a 

              particular class. The PW­1 H herself and PW­3 stated age of H as 

              14 years.  Their testimonies were recorded on 07.11.12.           

       16.                               As per ossification report ExPW7/A of the prosecutrix 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  13 of 30
                                                                                      14

              proved   by   PW­7   Dr.   Vijay   Dhankar   as   per   which   the   age   of 

              prosecutrix     is   between   14   years   to   16   years   on   the   date   of 

              examination. The incident of kidnapping as per PW1 is of 21.4.12 

              where   as   ossification   test   was   conducted   on   11.05.12. 

              Hence even on the date of ossification test she was more than 14 

              years of age, if I take lower side of the age as mentioned in the 

              ossification   test.     But   from   the   ossification   test   report   also   it   is 

              proved that on the day of incident prosecutrix is less than 18 years 

              of   age   and   more   than   12   years   of   age.   Though   as   per   school 

              certificate     his  age  comes  even  less  than   12  years  which   make 

              accused liable for higher punishment but considering the fact that 

              since no document was filed on the basis of which   her age was 

              mentioned in the school and prosecutrix herself in her testimony 

              had stated that she is 14 years of age which corroborate her age 

              mentioned in ossification test hence I give benefit to accused and 

              held that she was above 12 years of age but held she was less 

              than 16 years of age on the day of incident.   



State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  14 of 30
                                                                                      15
       17.                               Hence, now if prosecution is able to prove that accused 

              had entice the 'H' and took her away from the lawful guardianship 

              without   the   consent   of   her   lawful   guardian     and   had   sexual 

              intercourse     with   the   prosecutrix   then   accused   is   liable   to   be 

              convicted for offence u/s 376/363 IPC.   
       18.                               PW­1   prosecutrix   in   her   testimony   deposed   that   on 

              21.04.12 she along with her friend Sonia were going to school and 

              when they reached near the shop of iron in Mangal Bazar, accused 

              Azad   met   them   and   asked   her   to   accompany   but   she   refused. 

              Thereafter   he   started   scolded   her   but   she   did   not   obey   his 

              command and thereafter he put a handkerchief on her mouth and 

              she  become   unconscious  and  thereafter  she  did   not  know  what 

              had happened.  She regained consciousness, she found herself in 

              the house of her mother. She did not know what accused has done 

              with   her.     She   was  declared   hostile   by  Ld.   APP   and   was  cross 

              examined.     In   cross   examination   she   admitted   that   she   was 

              medically   examined   in   the   hospital.     She   also   admitted   that   her 

              statement   ExPW1/A   is   correct.     She   stated   that   she   was   not 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  15 of 30
                                                                                      16

              knowing the name of the accused at the time of incident and when 

              her   statement   ExPW1/A   was   recorded.     She   came   to   know   the 

              name of accused when the case against him started.  She further 

              stated that accused present in the court had taken her on the day 

              of incident.   She further stated that   police did not make inquiry 

              from her and recorded her statement on their own. She came to 

              know that accused has committed wrong act with her when she 

              was   medically   examined   as   she   become   unconscious   when 

              accused put handkerchief on her mouth.   She further stated that 

              she   know   the   meaning   of   galat   kaam   and   it   means   sexual 

              intercourse which is  to be  performed by husband  and  wife after 

              marriage.  In her cross examination, she stated that she had given 

              statement ExPW1/A to the earlier Judge voluntarily.   She further 

              stated that accused had taken her to India Gate by Metro train and 

              then   voluntarily   stated   that   she   did   not   accompany   with   him 

              voluntarily.     She   further   stated   that   they  had   boarded   the   metro 

              train from the station which is near Sai Baba Chowk and she has 

              not cried for help as accused has already threatened her that he 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  16 of 30
                                                                                       17

              will kill her if she would shout.  She further stated that there were 

              two other boys including Sonia when she was taken to India Gate. 

              She further stated that her parents had taken her to police station 

              but she did not know the date and denied the suggestion that she 

              was caught by the police from Japanese Park, Rohini.  She further 

              stated that accused had given her juice and shikanji at India Gate.

       19.                               Thus  on  appreciation  of  the   testimony  of   PW­1,  I  am 

              agree with contention of Ld. Counsel for accused that 'H' has taken 

              contradictory stands in her statements given to police ExPW19/DX, 

              in  her statement ExPW1/A  u/s  164 Cr.P.C. and in her testimony 

              recorded   in   the   court.     In   her   statement   u/s  161   Cr.P.C.   he   has 

              stated that accused has took her from her house after enticing her 

              (behla­phusla kar) and committed wrong act on the point of knife 

              whereas in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she had stated that one 

              person force her to sit on scooter and took her to Nizamuddin and 

              did   not   do   forceful   act   (jabardasti).     Further   in   her   testimony 

              recorded in the court, she had stated that accused has took her 

              after putting handkerchief on her nose and mouth. There are also 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  17 of 30
                                                                                      18

              contradictions   in   her   statement   ExPW1/A   and   in   her   testimony 

              recorded in the court as in her examination in chief she has stated 

              that   accused   put   handkerchief   on   her   mouth   and   thereafter   she 

              become unconscious and in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she has 

              stated   that   accused   has   gave   her   anda­bread   and   shikanji   and 

              thereafter   she   become   unconscious   whereas   in   her   cross 

              examination she stated that accused had given  shikanji as well as 

              put  handkerchief  on  her mouth.     All these  contradictions though 

              make her testimony unreliable to the extent that she was forcibly 

              taken by the accused from the lawful guardianship of her parents 

              but   one   common   thing   is   appearing   from   all   her   different 

              statements   that   she   was   taken   by   the   accused   from   the   lawful 

              guardianship of her parents on 21.4.12.   It appear prosecutrix has 

              given different version in her different statements because she is 

              confused   whether   to   save   the   accused   or   not.   It   appear   she 

              accompanied with the accused with her own consent but since she 

              is   less   then   18   years   of   age   therefor   her   consent   is  immaterial. 

              Therefore  I am of the view that her testimony cannot be discarded 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  18 of 30
                                                                                      19

              due to the contradictions in her statements. 

       20.                               Testimonies of PW1 that she went missing on 21.4.12 

              is further corroborated from the testimony of PW­3 Mohd. Mushtaq. 

              He had testified that 'H' was residing with him since she was 1 ½ 

              year   old.   He   further   testified   that   on   21.4.12,   H   daughter   of   his 

              sister  in   law  had   gone   to   school  and   she   did   not   returned   from 

              school and she was not found despite search and at about 11.30 

              pm he made  a call to police on no.100 about  the missing of H. 

              Police came and he narrated the facts of missing of H.  On inquiry 

              from   girl   from   the   school   told   that   she   had   seen   H   with   Mohd. 

              Azad.  Police recorded his statement ExPW3/A.  He further stated 

              that after 3­4 days, he received call from father of H that H has 

              reached at their house.  PW­3 went there and inquired from H who 

              told that she do not know anything as she was given some juice 

              due to which she become unconscious.   H told that accused had 

              taken her.  Police was informed and H was taken to hospital for her 

              medical examination.   In cross examination PW­3 stated that his 

              statement   was   recorded   in   PS   at   about   11/11.30   pm   and   his 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  19 of 30
                                                                                      20

              statement was recorded twice or thrice.  He further stated that on 

              22.4.12, he received phone from his Sadoo (brother in law) Mohd. 

              Rustam from Nizamuddin about the arrival of H and then he went 

              there   in   night   time   at   around   9/9.30   pm   after   returning   from   his 

              work.   On that night H was not taken back to his house by him. 

              PW­3   denied   the   suggestion   that     he   had   quarreled   with   the 

              accused many times prior to the incident.   Hence nothing much 

              has   come   out   in   his   cross   examination   which   could   lead   to 

              disbelieve his testimony that  PW­1 H was not from his custody on 

              21.04.12.  
       21.                               The DD no.68B ExPW13/A recorded by PW­13 on the 

              information   received   from   PCR   also   corroborated   the   fact   that 

              PW­3   has   made call to the police on 100 number.     Further the 

              testimony   of   PW­3   that   he   made   complaint   for   missing   of   H   is 

              proved from his statement ExPW3/A recorded by PW­17 SI Kailash 

              who prepared rukka on the basis of said statement.  On the rukka 

              ExPW17/A the timing of sending the rukka is mentioned as 1.15 am 

              on 22.4.11.  The timing of recording of FIR ExPW11/A is mentioned 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  20 of 30
                                                                                      21

              as   2.05 hours.   Hence from these facts it is evident that H was 

              missing   from   her   house   on   21.4.12.   Further   from   testimonies   of 

              PW1 and PW3 it is proved that 'H' returned to her parents home on 

              22.4.11. 
       22.                               Hence   from   the   aforesaid   facts  and   circumstances  in 

              my view, it is proved that accused had taken the prosecutrix from 

              the   lawful   guardianship   of   PW­3   in   whose   custody   PW­3   was 

              residing.     It is not the case of accused that he took permission 

              from the PW­3. 
       23.                               As far as the contention of Ld. Counsel for accused that 

              Mohd. Mushtaq is not the father of prosecutrix, in my view same is 

              also   immaterial   as   it   is   undisputed   fact   that   prosecutrix   was 

              residing   with   PW3   therefore   even   if   he   is   not   the   father   of 

              prosecutrix and prosecutrix is daughter of his sister in law, still he 

              was the lawful guardian of prosecutrix.

       24.                               Another   contention   of   ld.Counsel   for   accused   that 

              prosecutrix has stated that she was left at the house of her parents 

              and   denied   that   she   and   accused   were   apprehended   from   the 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  21 of 30
                                                                                      22

              Japanese   Park   as   claimed   by   the   IO   PW­17   SI   Kailash   Kumar, 

              same   is   also   immaterial   as   prosecution   has   to   only   prove   that 

              prosecutrix was taken out from the lawful guardianship.  It is seen 

              that police officials in order to take credit creates false evidence. 

              But merely on this ground entire case of the prosecution cannot be 

              thrown away.   Hence considering the facts and circumstances of 

              the   case,   I   held   that   prosecution   has   been   able   to   prove   that 

              accused has taken the 'H' from the custody  of her  lawful guardian 

              a  minor  girl less than  18 years of age   and thus kidnapped the 

              prosecutrix H.  
       25.                               As far as commission of rape by accused is concerned, 

              as   stated   above   prosecutrix  PW­1   'H'   has   testified   that   accused 

              has put handkerchief on her mouth and thereafter she does not 

              know what had happened.   In her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she 

              had categorically denied that accused has committed rape with her 

              (koi jor jabardasti nahin ki). But she had stated in her statement u/s 

              164     Cr.P.C   that   after   consuming   shikanji   she   become 

              unconscious.     Again   in   her   statement   u/s   164   Cr.P.C.   she   had 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  22 of 30
                                                                                      23

              categorically denied that accused has committed rape with her. But 

              in her cross examination she stated that she came to know that the 

              accused   has   committed   wrong   act   with   her   when   she   was 

              medically examined.   Hence as per her testimony accused have 

              committed   sex   with   her,   if   any  when   she   was  unconscious.     As 

              stated above prosecutrix is appeared to be confused because in 

              my view from her testimony it appears that she was in love with 

              accused, therefore, it cannot be ruled out that to save her honour 

              and probably to avoid scolding from her parents she stated that no 

              sex is committed by accused or she is not aware whether rape has 

              been committed with her as she was unconscious. 

       26.                               Hence,   from   the   other   evidence,   it   is   to   be   seen 

              whether   accused   had   committed   sex   with   her   or   not.   As   per 

              testimony of PW­8 Dr. Jaya Mishra who has come to depose in 

              place of Dr. Vidya Sinha.  H was examined by Dr. Vidya Sinha vide 

              MLC  ExPW8/A    and Dr.  Vidya  Sinha had given findings that  on 

              local examination hymen was found ruptured.  Though in her cross 

              examination   she   stated   that   without   having   sexual   intercourse 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  23 of 30
                                                                                      24

              hymen can ruptured due to falling or in physical sports activity like 

              horse riding etc.  However since no suggestion has been given to 

              prosecutrix that she was either a sports person or used to do horse 

              riding, therefore, it cannot be ruled out that her hymen might have 

              been   ruptured   due  to   sexual  intercourse   which  is  further  proved 

              from her DNA report.
       27.                               The DNA report is most scientific as chances of error  is 

              quite low.  In this respect, I rely upon Pantangi Balarama Venkata 

              Ganesh  V  State   Of   A.P.  Crl.Appl.174/2009   decided   on   23   July, 

              2009 Hon'ble judges of Supreme Court held that "46.Submission  

              of Mr.Sachar that the report of DNA should not be relied upon, can  

              not be accepted. What is DNA?It means :­(Deoxyribonucleic Acid),  

              which is found in the chromosomes of the cells of living beings is  

              the blueprint of an individual. DNA decides the characteristics of  

              the person such as the colour of the skin, type of hair, nails and so  

              on. Using this genetic fingerprinting identification of an individual is  

              done   like   in   the   traditional   method   of   identifying   fingerprints   of  

              offenders.   The   identification   is   hundred   percent   precise,   experts  

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  24 of 30
                                                                                      25

              opine. There cannot be any doubt whatsoever that there is a need  

              of quality control. Precautions are required to be taken to ensure  

              preparation of high­ molecular­weight DNA complete digestion of  

              the samples with appropriate enzymes, and perfect transfer and  

              hybridization of the blot to obtain distinct bands with appropriate  

              control. (See Article of Lalji Singh, Centre for Cellular and Molecular  

              Biology, Hyderabad in DNA Profiling and its applications) 

                                         But   in   this   case   there   is   nothing   to   show   that   such  

              precautions   were   not   taken.   Indisputably   the   evidence   of   the  

              experts   is   admissible   in   evidence   in   terms   of   Section   45   of   the  

              Evidence   Act,   1872.   In   cross­examination   PW­46   had   stated   as  

              under :­ If the DNA fingerprint of a person matches with that of a  

              sample, it means that the sample has come from that person only.  

              The   probability   of   two  persons  except   identical  twins  having   the  

              same DNA fingerprint is around 1 in 30 billion world population." 

       28.                               The   various   samples   of   prosecutrix   have   been   taken 

              during her medial examination is proved from her MLC ExPW8/A. 

              As in the MLC it is mentioned that exhibits i.e Sample No.4­Nail 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  25 of 30
                                                                                      26

              scrapping/ in between fingers, Sample 5 breast swab, Sample 6 

              combing of pubic hair 6, sample 7 clipping of pubic hair, sample 8 

              not taken no matting of pubic hair, sample 9 vaginal and cervical 

              mucus   secretion,   sample   10   culture,   sample   11   washing   from 

              vagina,   sample   12  rectal  examination,   Sample  14  blood   sample, 

              Sample   15   urine   sample   were   collected   after   her   medical 

              examination.  
       29.                               Further   from   the   testimony   of   PW­12   Dr.   Dinesh 

              Varshney   who   examined   the   accused   and   proved   the   MLC   as 

              ExPW12/A.  It is proved that blood sample, blood and gauge, pubic 

              hair sample, scalp hair sample and underwear were taken of the 

              accused.     
       30.                               DNA report ExPY and ExPX prepared by PW­20 Ms. 

              Seema   Nain.     From   the   DNA   report,   it   is   proved   that   DNA   of 

              accused taken from his blood sample Ex1B   found mixed in the 

              DNA   profile   of   Ex2e   (cotton   wool   swab   of   victim)   kept   in   tube 

              described as 'Cervical Mucus collection', Ex2h1 cotton wool swab 

              on stick  kept in tube described as Rectal swab and Ex2h2 faint 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  26 of 30
                                                                                      27

              smear described as 'Rectal Examination' of the victim. The report 

              of DNA analysis is reproduced as under :­­

                            Conclusion   :     DNA   profiling   (STR   analysis)   were 
                            performed on the source of exhibits '1b' (Blood sample 
                            of accused), '2e' (cotton wool swab of victim),   '2h1 
                            (cotton   wool   swab   of   victim),   '2h2'   (Micro   slides   of 
                            victim) is sufficient to conclude that DNA profile from 
                            the source of exhibit '1b' (Blood Sample of accused), 
                            is accounted in mixed DNA profile of source of exhibits 
                            2e   (Cotton   wool   swab   of   victim),   '2h1   (Cotton   wool 
                            swab of victim)', '2h2 (Microslides of victim)'.       31.                               Hence in view of DNA report, in my view, it is proved 

              that accused has committed sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix 

              otherwise   there   was   no   question   his   DNA   would   have   find   the 

              vaginal swab of 'H'.  
       32.                               The contention of the Ld. Counsel for accused that in 

              the   DNA   report   the   date   of   FIR   155/12   is   mentioned   22.02.12, 

              therefore the sample examined is not the sample of accused and 

              H.     But   in   my   view,   it   appears   to   be   a   typographical   mistake 


State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  28 of 30
                                                                                      29

              because date of FIR is 22.04.12 and it appears that inadvertently 

              22.02.12   has   been   typed.     There   cannot   be   same   FIR   number 

              155/12 in the same PS.  Hence there can be no FIR no.155/12 dt.

              22.01.12.    Further the  exhibits of this case were sent to  FSL  as 

              proved from the testimony of PW­18 Ct. Yogesh has testified that 

              on   14.5.12   he   collected   the   exhibits   from   MHC(M)   vide   RC 

              ExPW16/B and deposited the same in the FSL and FSL authority 

              issued him receipt ExPW16/C.  The FSL report shows that exhibits 

              have   been   received   by   the   letter   of   SHO   dt.   14.05.12   which 

              corroborated that the report pertains to the exhibits of this case.

       33.                               Therefore,   in   these   facts   and   circumstances,   the 

              findings   of   DNA   of   the   accused   in   the   vaginal   swab   of   victim 

              categorically   proved   that   accused   had   committed   sexual 

              intercourse with the victim H. 
       34.                               Even, if I admit the such contention of the ld. Counsel 

              for the accused that accused had taken the prosecutrix with the 

              consent of prosecutrix and committed sexual intercourse with her 

              consent same is immaterial because it is proved that H was less 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  29 of 30
                                                                                      30

              than 16 years of age and sex with a female less than 16 yearsa is 

              rape.   Hence, I held that prosecution has been able to prove that 

              accused has committed the rape with the prosecutrix.

       35.                               In   view   of   aforesaid   facts   and   circumstances   of   the 

              case and considering the testimony of PWs, I held that accused 

              has   kidnapped   the   prosecutrix   and   then   committed   sexual 

              intercourse   with   her.     Therefore,   I   convict   him   for   offence   u/s 

              363/376 IPC.
ANNOUNCED IN OPEN COURT                                                                             (SANJEEV KUMAR)
On 06.11.2013.                                                                       ASJ­01 (NORTH), ROHINI:DELHI.




State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  30 of 30
                                                                                      31

     IN THE COURT OF SHRI SANJEEV KUMAR: ASJ­01: NORTH:ROHINI 
                                                                                 DELHI
                                                                                                                                                 SC NO:48/12.
                                                                                                                                              FIR NO.155/12.
                                                                                                                        PS :PRASHANT VIHAR.
                                                                                                                                        U/S: 363/376 IPC.


STATE 
                                                                              VERSUS


MOHD. AZAD S/O. SAFFUDDIN
R/O. HOUSE OF JAGMAL, VILLAGE RAJAPUR,
SECTOR­9, ROHINI, DELHI.                                                                                                                       .... Convict




                                                            ORDER ON SENTENCE
27.11.2013.
Present:                   Shri A.K. Gupta, ld. Addl. PP for the State.

                           Convict is in JC.
                           Shri Narender Kumar, Advocate for convict.

       1.                                Vide Judgment dated  06/11/2013, Convict  Mohd. Azad was 

              convicted for offence u/s. 363/376 IPC. 

       2.                                It is submitted by Convict that, he is aged about 25 years 

State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  31 of 30
                                                                                      32

              and   he   has   old   aged   parents   and   four   marriageable   sisters   and   is 

              married   and   having   wife   and   two   young   children   of   age   2   yrs.   and 

              second of age two months old to look after.  He further submits that he 

              is the only bread winner of his family and previously he is not involved in 

              any crime.  Hence lenient view be taken.
       3.                                On the other hand, it is argued by the ld. Addl. PP for the 

              State that convict has kidnapped the prosecutrix who was just 14 yrs. of 

              age and thereafter committed rape with her and thus he has ruined her 

              life.   Hence,   the   convict   deserves   no   leniency   and   he   should   be 

              convicted for maximum sentence under the statute.

       4.                                I have considered the rival submissions.

       5.                                It has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in 

              para no.17 of the Judgment "State vs Karnataka Vs. Krishnappa AIR  

              2000 SC 1470" 
       6.                                The convict has misguided prosecutrix a girl of just 14 years 

              of age and took her from the lawful guardianship of her parents without 

              their   consent   and   then   committed   sexual   intercourse   with   her.   The 

              consent of the prosecutrix is immaterial when she is below 16 years of 

              age   in   a   case   of   rape   and   below   18   years   in   a   case   of   kidnapping. 

              Section 376 IPC provides minimum punishment of seven years rigorous 


State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  33 of 30
                                                                                      34

              imprisonment and maximum up to life.
       7.                                  Therefore, taking into   all the facts and circumstances, in 

              my view proper sentence in this case would be Seven years Rigorous 

              Imprisonment under Section 376 IPC with fine of Rs.5,000/­, in default of 

              payment of fine, he shall further undergo Simple Imprisonment for Three 

              months.
       8.                                Further he is sentenced for two years RI u/s. 363 IPC with 

              fine of Rs.2000/­, in default of payment of fine, he shall further under SI 

              for two months.
       9.                                Both the sentences shall run concurrently.

       8.                                The   convict   shall   be   entitled   for   benefit   of   Section   428 

              Cr.P.C. A copy of Judgment and that of order on sentence be provided 

              to the Convict free of cost. Case property is confiscated to the State. 

              File be consigned to record room.
Announced in open court                                                                                        (SANJEEV KUMAR)
   Dt.27.11.13                                                                                      ASJ­01, NORTH, ROHINI, DELHI 




State V Mohd. Azad
FIR no.155/12
PS Prashant Vihar                                                                                                                                       Page No.  34 of 30
