Brief Facts:
(1)          As per the allegations, in the intervening night of 26/27 

April, 2012 between 10:00 PM to 1:00 PM, at J­1404, Jahangirpuri, 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park           Page 1 of 38
 the accused Fahim @ Raju kidnapped the prosecutrix 'P' (name of the  

girl is withheld being case under Section 376 IPC),  a minor aged 

about   15   years,   from   the   lawful   guardianship   of   her   parents   and 

thereafter he took the prosecutrix to Moradabad at the house of his 

maternal uncle / mama i.e. co­accused Jumma where he kept her for 

two days.   It is further alleged that between 27.4.2012 till 1.5.2012 

the   accused   Fahim   @   Raju   committed   rape   upon   the   minor 

prosecutrix 'P'



Case of prosecution in brief:
(2)          The case of the prosecution in brief is that on 27/4.2012 at 

3:05   AM,   the   complainant   Sunita   came   to   the   police   station   and 

lodged   the   missing   report   of   her   daughter   'P'.     In   her   complaint, 

Sunita told the police that on 26.4.2012 at about 10:00 PM, she along 

with her husband, two sons and daughter 'P', were sleeping at her 

house but at about 1:00 PM when she woke up and found that the 

door of the house was open and her daughter 'P' was not there.  She 

expressed her suspicion upon Fahim @ Raju, a resident of the same 

area, as the person who had taken her daughter away after alluring 

and enticing her.  On the basis of above complaint, present FIR was 

registered and  during investigations the prosecutrix was recovered 

and the accused was arrested and after completing the investigations, 

charge sheet was filed in the court. 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park                Page 2 of 38
 CHARGE:
(3)          Charge under Section 363 and 376 Indian Penal Code was 

settled against the accused Fahim @ Raju.  Charge under Section 212 

Indian Penal Code was settled against the accused Jumma.



EVIDENCE:
(4)          In order to discharge the onus upon it, the prosecution has 

examined as many as twelve witnesses:


Public Witnesses:
(5)          Sunita  (PW8) is the mother of the prosecutrix.   She has 

deposed that in the intervening night of 26/27 April 2012, she was 

sleeping in her house along with her family members and at about 

1.00 AM (midnight), she wake up and found that her daughter Pinki 

was not present in the house and she was missing from there and 

found   door   in   an   open   condition.     According   to   the   witness,   she 

searched for her daughter but she was not found there and thereafter 

she along with her husband went to Police Station Mahendra Park 

and informed the police wherein she expressed her suspicion upon 

Fahim @ Raju as the person who kidnapped her daughter and the 

police recorded her statement which is  Ex.PW8/A  wherein she has 

identified her thumb impression at point A.  The witness has deposed 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park              Page 3 of 38
 that they also went to the house of accused Fahim but he was not 

available at his house.
(6)          According to the witness, after two days she received a 

telephone call of her daughter 'P' informing that Fahim @ Raju had 

kidnapped   her   in   the   intervening   night   of   26/27   April   2012   after 

calling her outside of the house and took her to the Moradabad and 

Bariely and Fahim committed rape with her, on which she (witness) 

advised   the   prosecutrix   and   made   her   understand   and   also   asked 

Fahim and her daughter to return to Delhi.  The witness has deposed 

that on the third day, her daughter 'P' and accused Fahim met her at 

Metro Station, Jahangir Puri and her daughter 'P' told her that she 

was   kidnapped   by   accused   Fahim   and   Raju   and   took   her   to 

Moradabad and Bariely at the house of his maternal uncle Jumma 

and committed rape upon her.   According to the witness thereafter 

she took both the prosecutrix and Fahim to Police Station Mahendra 

Park   where   police   examined   the   prosecutrix   and   interrogated   the 

accused Fahim after which the accused was arrested and both Fahim 

and the prosecutrix were taken to the BJRM Hospital by the police 

for their medical examination. The witness has deposed that after 2­3 

days, her daughter was also produced before the MM for recording 

of her statement. She has deposed that she also handed over birth 

certificate of her daughter to police and police seized the same vide 

seizure   memo  Ex.PW4/B  and   photocopy   of   birth   certificate   is 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park              Page 4 of 38
 Ex.PW8/B. The witness has clarified that her another name is Gomti 

and she is known by both names Sunita and Gomti.  According to the 

witness,   on   the  next   day of  arrival  of  her  daughter  and Fahim  at 

Metro Station Jahangir Puri the accused Jumma maternal uncle of 

accused Fahim also reached Delhi.  She has correctly identified both 

Fahim @ Raju and Jumma in the court.
(7)          In   her   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Defence   Counsel,   the 

witness has deposed that she along with her children and husband 

used to sleep on the ground floor in one room.  She has deposed that 

she is having a mobile phone bearing No. 9654121763 but she does 

not   remember   the   mobile   number   of   her   husband   on   which   her 

daughter 'P' had called and has voluntarily explained that she had 

attended the said call.   She has deposed that she received the call of 

her   daughter   at   about   8.00­8.15   PM   after   which   she   reached   at 

Jahangir Puri Metro Station and met Pinki and Fahim there.  She has 

deposed that she handed over the prosecutrix and accused Fahim to 

the police after she had given them a call.  
(8)          On Court Question as to where were they handed over to 

police, whether at the metro station or anywhere else and the witness 

has   explained   that   she   had   taken   them   to   the   police   station   and 

handed them over to the police there. She does not remember the 

exact time when they named her daughter as 'P'. The witness has 

clarified that they named her daughter as 'P' after 6­7 days.  She has 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park               Page 5 of 38
 denied that her daughter 'P' was not kidnapped by accused Fahim. 

(9)          Suresh Kumar (PW9) is the official of the Office of Sub 

Registrar, Birth and Death.  He has brought the birth register of year 

1997 and according to the Register, at S.No. 375 on 01.02.1997 one 

girl namely 'P' daughter of Santosh Kumar and Gomti was born on 

31.01.1997  at   the   H.No.   J­1404,   Jahangir   Puri,   Delhi   and   the 

information    given   at   our department  by the grand mother of the 

child.   Photocopy   of   entry   regarding   birth   of   above   said   Pinki   is 

Ex.PW9/A  and the birth certificate of 'P'  Ex.PW8/B.   In his cross 

examination, the witness has deposed that they registered the above 

said birth information of 'P' as given by her grandmother. 

(10)           'P' (PW10) is the prosecutrix.   She has deposed that she 

was   residing   at   the   given  address   along   with   her   parents, 

grandmother and two brothers and was studying in class 10th.   She 

has   deposed   that   the   accused   Fahim   @   Raju   used   to   tease   her 

whenever she used to go or come from her school.   She has stated 

that he used to insist upon her to marry him but she refused for the 

same and hence she only knew him as such.  She has deposed that on 

26.04.2012   at   about   10.00­11.00   PM,   she   along   with   her   family 

members were sleeping in the house when in the intervening night of 

26/27.04.2012 at about 1.00­130 AM she woke up as she wanted to 

attend the call of nature on which she went to the toilet which was 

situated outside the gate where she found accused Fahim @ Raju 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park              Page 6 of 38
 outside of her house.   According to the witness, the accused Fahim 

induced   her   to   accompany   him   stating   that   her   family   members 

would agree for their marriage.   According to the prosecutrix, she 

came under the influence of talks of accused Fahim (main uski baton  

mai   aa   gayee).  The  witness has deposed that  thereafter Fahim  @ 

Raju took her to Moradabad where they stayed at the house of his 

maternal uncle Jumma for two days.   According to the prosecutrix 

thereafter the accused Fahim @ Raju and Jumma took her to Bariely 

and   they   stayed   there   for   one   day   and   in   the   night   time   accused 

Fahim @ Raju committed rape upon her.   The witness has further 

deposed that on the next day, she called her mother by telephone and 

told all these facts to her mother who made her to understand and 

asked her and accused Fahim @ Raju to return back to Delhi and 

hence she (witness) asked repeatedly accused Fahim to take her back 

to Delhi.  According to the witness, she along with accused Fahim @ 

Raju came back to Delhi on 01.05.2012 and she called her mother at 

Jahangir Puri Metro Station where her mother met her there and took 

both   of   them   to   the   police   station   Mahendra   Park   where   police 

interrogated her. The witness has deposed that after the interrogation 

of accused Fahim @ Raju, he was arrested by the police.   She has 

deposed   that   she   was   taken   to   the   BJRM   Hospital   for   medical 

examination but her internal examination could not be done as we 

refused   for   internal   examination   and   again   she   was   taken   to   the 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park                 Page 7 of 38
 BJRM   Hospital   and   then   her   complete   medical   examination   was 

conducted   and   her   undergarments   were   also   taken   by   the   doctors 

there.  The witness has deposed that on the next day on 02.05.2012 

she along with her mother went to the police station to hand over her 

birth   certificate   to   the   police   and   she   saw   accused   Jumma   and 

identified him before the police. She has deposed that the accused 

Jumma   was   also   arrested   by   the   police   and   birth   certificate   was 

handed over to the police by her mother.  She admits that her date of 

birth is 31.01.1997.
(11)           According to the witness after 2­3 days she was produced 

before the Ld. MM at Rohini Courts and her statement was recorded 

vide Ex.PW10/A (running into two pages) bearing her signatures at 

point A.  She admits that her thumb impression was also taken on her 

statement  Ex.PW10/A  and put her thumb impression at point B on 

both the pages.  She has also deposed that she also handed over her 

undergarments   to   the   police  which   were  worn  by  her  on  the  day 

when accused Fahim @ Raju committed rape upon her and police 

sealed the same in a cloth pullanda and seized vide seizure memo 

Ex.PW4/A  bearing   her   signatures   at   point   B.   The   witness   has 

correctly identified bothy Fahim @ Raju and Jumma in the court. 

She   has   also   correctly   identified   the   case   property   i.e.   i.e.   her 

clothings which are collectively Ex.P1 and P2. 



State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park               Page 8 of 38
 (12)           In   her   cross   examination   by   Ld.  Amicus   Curiae,   the 

witness has admitted that she gave her statement to the police on 

01.05.2012 when she returned back to Delhi with accused Fahim @ 

Raju and has further admitted that she had not stated in her statement 

dated 01.05.2012 to the police that accused Fahim used to tease her. 

She further admits that she had stated in her statement that she met 

Fahim at 10.00 PM at night when she was going to market.  She also 

admits that she has stated in the court that Fahim met her outside her 

house at 1.00­1.30 AM in the intervening night of 26/27.04.2012.

(13)           On specific question by the court to explain as to which 

of   the   above   statements   was   correct   and   which   was   wrong,   the 

witness has explained that her statement recorded under Section 164 

Cr. PC is wrong from portion C to C of Ex.PW10/A.  
(14)           The   witness   has   deposed   that   the   accused   Fahim   was 

standing outside her house and he took her from there on foot.  She 

admits that she has not statement in her statement U/s 161 Cr. PC 

recorded on 01.05.2012 that her family members would be agree for 

marriage on which she came under the influence of talks of accused 

Fahim (main uski baton mai aa gayee).
(15)           According to the witness, they took auto from the main 

road after a walk of 4­5 minutes and thereafter reached at Anand 

Vihar ISBT by auto.   She further deposed that she and the accused 

Fahim also took their clothes and necessary articles with them.  She 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park            Page 9 of 38
 has deposed that they reached Moradabad at about 7.00 PM.   She 

admits that she and Fahim had already decided to go to Moradabad. 

She again said accused Fahim decided to go to Moradabad.  She does 

not know the residential address of accused Jumma.  She admits that 

there were male and female members also residing in the house of 

Jumma numbering to 7­8 persons and that the house of Jumma had 

three rooms on the ground floor and two rooms on the first floor. 

The witness has deposed that she stayed along with a lady of the 

house in one room on the ground floor but did not disclose anything 

to the family members of Jumma or to accused Jumma.  According 

to the witness, she was taken to Bariely by train and they stayed at 

Bariely in a rented room but she is unable to tell the name of the 

landlord of the house.   She has deposed that she did not show this 

house / room of Bariely to the police at any point of time nor she had 

gone with the police to Bariely at any point of time.  The witness has 

deposed   that   she   called   up   her   mother   from   a   PCO   situated   at   a 

distance of five minutes' walk from the room and it was morning 

time but she does not remember the exact time.  She has deposed that 

Fahim had got the ticket of Delhi on the next day.  She has deposed 

that she stayed in the same room at Bariely for three days and during 

this   period   of   three   days,   she   did   not   tell   the   landlord   nor   she 

disclosed   to   any   of   the   neighbours   or   persons   that   she   had   been 

forcibly brought by accused Fahim.  According to the witness she did 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park                 Page 10 of 38
 not tell anybody during the entire traveling that she had been brought 

forcibly by the accused Fahim.  She also did not raise any alarm or 

call   anybody   for   help   during   this   period.     She   has   deposed   that 

accused Jumma did not accompany them after Moradabad.

(16)           The prosecutrix has deposed that she was apprehended 

along with accused Fahim at Metro Station Jahangir Puri. She admits 

that her statmenert U/s 164 Cr. PC she had told the Ld. MM that she 

was   apprehended   at   Metro   Station   Azadpur   and   has   voluntarily 

explained that she had made a wrong statement to the Ld. MM (galat  

bataya tha). 
(17)         On   Court   question   as   to   why   she   made   a   wrong  
statement   to   the   Ld.   MM   with   regard   to   the   time   and   place   of  
leaving   with   the   accused   and   the   place   where   she   was  
apprehended, the witness has explained that it was by mistake and  
being   perplexed   that   she   had  given   incorrect   time   and   place   of  
leaving   and   place   of   apprehension     Azadpur   whereas   she   was  
actually   apprehended   at   metro   station   Jahangir   Puri   and   also  
states that on the date of incident she was sleeping and came out of  
her house to attend the call of nature after which she accompanied  
the accused Fahim.
(18)           The witness has deposed that she had never failed in any 

class nor there was any gap in her studies.  She has denied that she 

was never taken by accused Fahim or that she never stayed in the 

house of accused Jumma or that Fahim has never committed rape 

upon her.  

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park              Page 11 of 38
 Medical Evidence:
(19)           PW7  Dr.   Mamta  has  deposed  that   on  01.05.2012   the 

prosecutrix 'P' was brought to the hospital with alleged history of 

sexual   assault.   According   to   the   witness,   the   prosecutrix   was 

medically   examined   by  Dr. Subhash  under  the  supervision  of  Dr. 

Vaibhav, CMO and Dr. Subhash prepared the MLC No. 41004 which 

is  Ex.PW7/A,  and   referred   the   patient   to   Gynae   Department   for 

internal examination.    The witness has deposed that in the Gynae 

Department,   she   medically   examined   the   prosecutrix   with   alleged 

history of sexual assault two days back and victim had bath changed 

the clothes including undergarments after the incidence. The witness 

has proved that in the local examination she has not found any fresh 

external injury on the person of 'P' at the time of examination.  She 

has deposed that the victim and her mother refused for her internal 

examination. She has proved her observations as encircled portion 

from   X   to   X­1   bearing   her   signatures   at   point   A   and   B   on 

Ex.PW7/A.  The witness has deposed that on the same day at about 

11.30   PM   the   prosecutrix   was   again   brought   to   the   hospital   for 

internal examination and she (witness) did not find any injury marks 

over the external genitalia and hymen was old teared. She took the 

samples and inner clothings of victim and prepared the slides and 

handed over the sexual assault evidence collection kit to the police in 

sealed condition with the seal of hospital along with sample seal

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park            Page 12 of 38
 Police / official witnesses:
(20)           PW1 ASI Babu Khan is formal witness being the duty 

officer.   He   has   been   examined   by   way   of  affidavit   which   is 

Ex.PW1/1.  He has proved the registration of FIR copy of which is 

Ex.PW1/A.   He has also proved the  endorsement made by him on 

rukka which is Ex.PW1/B. He has also proved the registration ofDD 

No.   6A  dated   27.04.2012 which  is  Ex.PW1/C.   He has not  been 

cross examined on behalf of the accused and his testimony has gone 

uncontroverted. 
(21)           PW2 HC Chander Bhan  is a formal witness being the 

MHC(M).   He   has   been   examined  way   of   affidavit   which   is 

Ex.PW2/1.  He has proved the entries made by him in the Register 

No. 19 and 21 vide Ex.PW2/A, Ex.PW2/B and Ex.PW2/C.  He has 

not been cross examined on behalf of the accused and his testimony 

has gone uncontroverted. 
(22)           PW3 HC Bhupender is also a formal witness being the 

MHC  (M).     He  has   been   examined   by  way   of  affidavit   which   is 

Ex.PW3/1.  He has proved the entries made by him vide Ex.PW2/B 

and Ex.PW2/C.   He has not been cross examined on behalf of the 

accused and his testimony has gone uncontroverted. 

(23)           PW4   L/Ct   Geeta  is   a   formal   witness   and   has   been 

examined by way of affidavit which is Ex.PW4/1.   She has proved 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park         Page 13 of 38
 the   seizure   memo   of   clothes   of   prosecutrix   vide  Ex.PW4/A  and 

seizure   memo   of   birth   certificate   vide  Ex.PW4/B.    In   her   cross 

examination by Ld. Amicus Curaei for for accused, the witness has 

deposed  that  the prosecutrix produced the undergarments at  about 

1.00­2.00 AM on 01.05.2012.
(24)           PW5 L/Ct Anita is also a formal witness.  She has been 

examined by way of affidavit which is  Ex.PW5/1. She has proved 

the seizure memo of exhibits of prosecutrix vide  Ex.PW5/A.   She 

has   not   been   cross   examined   on   behalf   of   the   accused   and   his 

testimony has gone uncontroverted. 
(25)           PW6   Ct   Devender   Sharma  has   deposed   that   on 

01.05.2012   in   his   presence   the   IO   Inspector   Laxmi   Dubey 

interrogated Fahim and thereafter recorded his disclosure statement 

vide Ex.PW6/A after which he was arrested vide Ex.PW6/B  and his 

personal search was taken vide Ex.PW6/C and thereafter he (Fahim) 

was   taken   to   BJRM   Hospital   for   medical   examination   and   his 

exhibits   were   collected   vide   memo  Ex.PW6/D.     The   witness   has 

further   deposed   that   on   02.05.2012   the   accused   Jumma   was 

interrogated   by   IO   Inspector   Laxmi   Dubey   who   confessed   his 

involvement in this case and he was arrested vide  Ex.PW6/E, his 

personal   search   was   conducted   vide   memo  Ex.PW6/F  and   his 

disclosure statement was also recorded by the IO vide  Ex.PW6/G. 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park            Page 14 of 38
 He   has   correctly   identified   the   accused   Fahim   and   Jumma   in   the 

court. 
(26)           In   his   cross   examination   by   Ld.   Amicus   Curiae,   the 

witness has deposed that the IO interrogated accused Fahim in his 

presence at about 3.00PM on 01.05.2012.  He further deposed that on 

02.05.2012 IO interrogated accused Jumma in his presence at about 

1.00 PM and IO interrogated him for about 10­15 minutes.  He has 

denied the suggestion that the accused Fahim and Jumma were not 

interrogated   by   the   IO   in   his   presence   or   that   that   arresting 

documents and disclosure statement of accused were not prepared in 

his   presence   or   that   he   put   his   signatures   on   those   documents 

subsequently at the instance of the IO.  
(27)           PW11   SI   Anil   Kumar  has   deposed   that   on   the 

intervening night of 26/27.04.2012 at about 2.00 AM (midnight) he 

received   an   information   vide   DD   No.6A  Ex.PW1/A  regarding 

missing of  a girl namely aged 15 years on which he along with Ct. 

Virender   reached   at   H.No.   J­1404,   Jahangir   Puri,   Delhi   where 

complainant   Sunita   W/o   Santosh   met   him   and   he   recorded   her 

statement  Ex.PW8/A  on   the   basis   of   which   he   prepared   rukka 

Ex.PW11/A  and got the FIR registered through Ct. Virender.   He 

also asked for date of birth certificate of missing girl but she again 

said she will provide the same on the next morning.  The witness has 

deposed that he along with the complainant and Ct. Virender tried to 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park            Page 15 of 38
 search   the   missing   girl   at   Jahangir   Puri   Metro   Station   and   GTK 

Road, Bye pass but she could not found.
(28)           In   his   cross­examination   by   Ld.   Amicus   Curaie,   the 

witness has deposed that he reached at the house of complainant at 

abut 2.00­2.10 AM (midnight) and remained at the spot for about one 

and half hour.  He deposed that Ct. Virender reched the spot at about 

2.50AM with copy of FIR and original rukka.   He has denied that he 

did   not   reach   at   the   spot   or   that   he   did   not   record   statement   of 

complainant.  
(29)           PW12   Inspector   Laxmi   Dubey  has   deposed   that   on 

01.05.2012 she examined the prosecutrix who disclosed that Fahim 

@ Raju had allured, enticed and taken her away to Moradabad and 

thereafter to Bareilly where she was kept for about four days and 

during   this  period   he   committed  rape  upon her.  According  to the 

witness,   she   examined   the   mother   of   the   prosecutrix   and   also 

interrogated the accused Fahim @ Raju and recorded his disclosure 

statement   vide  Ex.PW6/A  after   which   she  arrested   him   vide 

Ex.PW6/B  and   his   personal   search   was   conducted   through   Ct. 

Devender vide Ex.PW6/C. The witness has deposed that the accused 

was taken to to BJRM Hospital where his medical examination was 

got conducted.   She has deposed that the prosecutrix was also got 

medically examined.   The witness has deposed that on 02.05.2012 

the prosecutrix and her mother came to the police station and she 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park                  Page 16 of 38
 pointed out one person who had entered in the police station as the 

Mama   of   the   accused   i.e.   co­accused   Jumma   whose   disclosure 

statement   was   recorded   vide  Ex.PW6/G  and  thereafter   he   was 

arrested vide  Ex.PW6/E and his personal search was conducted vide 

Ex.PW6/F.   She has also got recorded the statement of prosecutrix 

under Section 164 Cr.PC after which the prosecutrix was produced 

before   the   CWC   since   she   was   a   minor   and  the  UPT  test   of  the 

prosecutrix which was pending was then conducted on 05.05.2012 

which   was   negative   and   the   exhibits   were   thereafter   sent   to   FSL 

through HC Bhupender on 17.05.2012.   The witness has correctly 

identified both the accused and also the case property in the court. 

(30)           In   her   cross   examination   by   Ld.  Amicus   Curiae,   the 

witness has denied the  suggest that all the documentation was done 

while sitting in the police station.  According to her, the information 

regarding   arrest   of   accused   Fahim   was   given   to   his   mother   and 

information regarding arrest of Jumma was given to his brother in 

law.   The   witness   has   deposed   that   she   sent   HC   Satneder   to 

Moradabad   for   investigation   regarding   staying   of   prosecutrix   at 

Moradabad at the house of accused Jumma however she does not 

remember the date.  She has admitted that the proceedings conducted 

by HC Satender has not be included in the charge sheet.  She further 

admits that except the statement of prosecutrix, there is no document 

and statement which shows that accused Fahim took the prosecutrix 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park            Page 17 of 38
 to the Moradabad or thereafter to Bariely.  

STATEMENT OF ACCUSED & DEFENCE EVIDENCE:
(31)           After completion of prosecution evidence, the statements 

of the accused Fahim and Jumma were recorded under Section 313 

Cr.P.C. wherein all incriminating evidence was put to them which 

they have denied. The accused have stated that they are innocent and 

have been falsely implicated, however, they have not examined any 

witness in defence. 

FINDINGS:
(32)           I have heard the arguments advanced before me by the 

Ld. Addl. PP for the State and the Ld. Defence Counsel.  I have also 

considered   the   testimonies   of   various   witnesses   examined   by   the 

prosecution and memorandum of arguments filed on behalf of the 

accused. My findings are as under: 


Identity of the accused Fahim and Jumma:
(33)           The accused Fahim has been specifically named in the 

complaint   on   the   basis   of   which   the   FIR   was   registered.     Even 

otherwise,   he   has   been   correctly   identified   in   the   court   by   the 

prosecutrix.   In so far as Jumma is concerned, he is the maternal 

uncle / mama of accused Fahim in whose house the prosecutrix and 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park            Page 18 of 38
 the accused had allegedly stayed for two days.  The accused Jumma 

has also been correctly identified in the court by the prosecutrix.  


Age of the Prosecutrix 'P':
(34)           The  case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   at   the   time   of   the 

incident the prosecutrix 'P' was aged about 15 to 16 years.   In this 

regard the prosecution has relied upon the date of birth certificate 

showing the date of birth of prosecutrix as 31.1.1997.   The witness 

from the office of Sub­Registrar namely Suresh Kumar (PW9) has 

produced   the   original   record   relating   to   the   date   of   birth   of   the 

prosecutrix.  He has proved that as per their Register, at S. No. 375 

the child 'P' (name changed) was born to Santosh Kumar and Gomti 

on   31.1.1997   at   House   No.   J­1404,   Jahangirpuri,   Delhi,   which 

information was given to their department by the grand mother of the 

child. Smt. Sunita (PW8) who is the mother of the prosecutrix has 

explained that she is also known as Gomti.  Even otherwise it is writ 

large that the address i.e.  House No. J­1404, Jahangirpuri, Delhi, is 

the same and it stands established that the date of birth certificate of 

the prosecutrix which is  Ex.PW9/A  is an authentic document and 

pertains to the prosecutrix 'P' proving that at the time of incident i.e. 

26/27 April, 2012, the prosecutrix 'P' was hardly aged about fifteen 

years three months (had not even arrived at the age of consent). 




State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park                  Page 19 of 38
 Medical / Forensic Evidence: 
(35)           The case of the prosecution is that during the period the 

prosecutrix   had   stayed   with   the   accused   Fahim,   she   had   been 

sexually assaulted by him.  Dr. Mamta (PW7) has proved the MLC 

of   the   prosecutrix   vide  Ex.PW7/A.   She   has   proved   that   the 

prosecutrix had been brought to the hospital along with her mother 

by L/Ct. Geeta with alleged history of sexual assault and on local 

examination, she did not find any external injury on her body.  She 

has proved that initially the mother of prosecutrix had refused for her 

internal examination but later at 11:30 PM, when the prosecutrix was 

again brought to the hospital, the mother of the prosecutrix consented 

for   the   internal   examination   of   the   prosecutrix.     The  witness   has 

proved that on internal examination, she found that hymen tear was 

old after which she collected the samples and clothing of the victim 

and prepared the slides and thereafter handed over the sexual assault 

evidence kit to the police in sealed condition.   It is evident that the 

medical record is compatible to the history of sexual assault given by 

the prosecutrix as against the accused Fahim.
(36)           The forensic evidence does not assist the prosecution in 

any manner as no semen could be detected (incident being old).




State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park            Page 20 of 38
 Allegations against the accused Jumma:
(37)           In so far as the accused Jumma is concerned, he has been 

made accused in the present case because the prosecutrix has alleged 

that after Fahim kidnapped her from Delhi he took her to the house 

of Jumma where they stayed for two days after which he brought her 

to Bariely.  In this regard, I may observe that in her statement under 

Section 161 Cr.PC to the police which was given at the first instance, 

the   only   allegation   made   by   the   prosecutrix   against   the   accused 

Jumma is that when Fahim took her to Moradabad, they stayed there 

for two days at the house of his matrimonial uncle / mama.  Further, 

in her statement made to the Ld. MM under Section 164 Cr.PC which 

statement has been proved by the prosecutrix as  Ex.PW10/A, she 

does not name Jumma at all.  She only states that Fahim had taken 

her to Moradabad at the house of his relative where he committed 

rape upon her without her consent.  It is for the first time in the court 

that   the   prosecutrix   has   made   improvements   over   her   earlier 

statements   where   she   not   only   says   that   when   they   went   to 

Moradadabad they stayed in the house of Jumma for two days and 

when they went to Bariely, Jumma was also with them and it was 

Fahim and Jumma who took her to Bariely.   This statement of the 

prosecutrix is totally an improvement of her earlier statements and 

therefore does not appear to be convincing and correct.  Had Jumma 

accompanied them to Bariely, she would have mentioned this fact to 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park           Page 21 of 38
 her mother or to the police or even to the Ld. MM, which she did not 

do at the first instance.  Again, when in her cross examination when 

she was questioned as to how she had gone to Bariely, she was silent 

on the involvement of Jumma.   She has further admitted that when 

they stayed at the house of Jumma, there were about 7 to 8 other 

family members residing in the same house which had three rooms 

on the ground floor and two rooms on the first floor and she stayed in 

a room on the ground floor with a lady but did not disclose anything 

to the family members of Jumma or to Jumma as to how she was 

brought to Moradabad by Fahim. 
(38)           In view of the above, I hereby hold that the prosecution 

has been failed to establish beyond reasonable doubt that the accused 

Jumma had relevant mens­rea or had physically detained and kept the 

prosecutrix at his house for ulterior motives or that he was involved 

with Fahim in any manner.  Prosecution has also failed to establish 

beyond reasonable doubt that accused Jumma (Mama of Fahim) had 

accompanied Fahim and the prosecutrix to Bariely.   This being the 

background,   benefit   of  doubt  is  liable  to be given to  the accused 

Jumma for the charges alleged against him.  

Allegations against the accused Fahim:
(39)           The case of the prosecution is that Fahim @ Raju was 

staying   in   the   same   area   and   on   the   date   of   incident   i.e.   in   the 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park                  Page 22 of 38
 intervening   night   of   26/27   April,   2012,   he   had   kidnapped   the 

prosecutrix   'P'   and   taken   her   to   Moradabad   where   he   kept   the 

prosecutrix in the house of his maternal uncle Jumma for two days 

and thereafter took her to Barralliey where they stayed for one day 

and during night time he committed rape upon the prosecutrix against 

her   wishes   and   without   her  consent.     The  relevant   portion  of   the 

testimony of the prosecutrix is reproduced as under :

(40)           The  prosecutrix   'P'   has   been   cross   examined   at   length 

wherein she has admitted having given a detailed statement to the 

police under Section 161 Cr.PC and also to the Ld. Magistrate under 

Section   164   Cr.PC.     There   are   contradictions   in   the   statement   of 

prosecutrix with regard to the manner in which she was taken by the 

accused.   Initially she had told the Ld. Magistrate in her statement 

under Section 164 Cr.P.C. that she had left with the accused of her 

own when she met him in the market.  She further told the Ld. MM 

that on the date of incident at about 10 PM she had gone to buy some 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park             Page 25 of 38
 articles when she met Fahim who was on a motorcycle and she sat on 

his motorcycle and went with him and after some distance Fahim 

handed over the motorcycle to his friend and thereafter he took her to 

Moradabad in a bus.
(41)           In the court, the prosecutrix has deposed that on the date 

of incident i.e. in the intervening night of 26/27 April, 2012 she and 

her family members were sleeping in the house and at about 1:00 to 

1:30 AM when she woke up to attend the call of nature and went to 

the   toilet   situated   outside   of   the   gate,   she   found   Fahim   @   Raju 

outside the house who induced her to accompany him saying that her 

family members would be agree for marriage, on which she came 

under   influence   of   his   talks   after   which   Fahim   took   her   to 

Moradabad. There are also material improvements in the statement of 

the prosecutrix wherein she states that she being regularly teased by 

the accused Fahim while she used to go to school and he often asked 

her   to   marry   her   but   she   refused.     Again   there   are   material 

contradictions in the testimony of the prosecutrix with regard to the 

place from where she was recovered.  According to the prosecutrix 

she had made a call to her mother while she was with the accused 

and it was then that her mother made her to understand and asked her 

to come back on which she along with Fahim came back Delhi on 

1.5.2012   and   met   her   mother   at   Jahangirpuri   Metro   Station   from 

where   her   mother   took   her   and   Fahim   to   Mahendra   Park   Police 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park              Page 26 of 38
 Station where Fahim was arrested. When specifically examined by 

the court and asked to explain the discrepancies in her statement as 

she had earlier told to the Ld. Magistrate that she was apprehended at 

Azadpur Metro Station, the prosecutrix has explained that it was by 

mistake that she had given incorrect time and place of her recovery 

to the Ld. MM whereas she was actually apprehended at Jahangirpuri 

Metro Station and also states that on the date of incident she had 

come out of the house to attend the call of nature and found Fahim 

outside her house who took her away and has clarified the facts told 

by her to the Ld. Magistrate, were not correct.
(42)             One   thing   which   emerges   from   the   testimony   of   the 

prosecutrix and finds due corroboration from the testimonies of the 

other witness and the medical record, is that the prosecutrix had gone 

with the accused Fahim and had stayed with him at Moradabad for 

two days and at Bariely and at Bariely the accused made physical 

relations with her (hymen tear is old).  In his statement under section 

313 Cr.P.C. the accused has denied the incident and has stated that he 

has been falsely implicated on account of previous animosity details 

of which he has not provided.  
(43)           It   is   writ   large   that   the   defence   of   the   accused   is 

unbelievable.   Having failed to bring on record the details of any 

previous animosity or the grounds / reasons why anybody would put 

the reputation of a young unmarried minor girl at stake to falsely 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park               Page 27 of 38
 implicate   him,   it   is   not   possible   to   believe   what   the   accused   has 

alleged   [Reference  in   this regard is made to the case  of  State of  

Himachal Pradesh Vs. Asha Ram reported in AIR 2006 SC 381 and 

Vishnu Vs. State of Maharastra reported in 2006 AIR (SC) 508].  

(44)           It is evident from the above that the prosecutrix is not 

very consistent and truthful on the aspect as to how she had gone 

with the accused Fahim and stayed with him for about five­six days. 

Had it been by force she would have certainly raised an alarm or at 

least informed the family member of Fahim particularly the ladies 

with whom she stayed in the house of Jumma which she did not do. 

Also, if there was any force or pressure on her she would not have 

accompanied Fahim to Bariely thereafter.   She also admits that she 

had   voluntarily   made   a   call   to   her   mother   and   when   her   mother 

explained   to   her   about  the  mistake  which  she had  committed  she 

came back to Delhi along with Fahim.   It is this which establishes 

that   the   prosecutrix   was   a   consenting   party   and   had   voluntarily 

accompanied the accused of her own.  
(45)           The next question which arises is whether their consent 

was free and legally valid.  In this regard the arguments advanced by 

the Ld. Defence Counsel is two fold.   First that the Date of Birth 

Certificate is not authentic and Second that even otherwise the age of 

consent cannot be applied stricto­senso as her biological and mental 

development shows that she is an informed girl who is aware of the 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park                Page 28 of 38
 worldly affairs.  He has vehemently argued that the prosecution has 

miserably   failed   to   prove   the   date   of   birth   certificate   of   the 

prosecutrix.  It is also submitted that there is no evidence on record 

to   show   that   Sunita   and   Gomti   are   both   the   names   of   the   same 

woman i.e. the mother of the prosecutrix.   It is submitted that the 

information   of   the   birth   of   the   prosecutrix   was   given   by   her 

grandmother on the next date of her birth meaning thereby that the 

certificate should be blank in the place of name of the prosecutrix 

because as per the prosecution case the prosecutrix was named 'P' 

after six­seven days of her birth and hence the prosecution has failed 

to   prove   the   date   of   birth   certificate   of   the   prosecutrix   and   no 

explanation to the effect as to why the certificate show the name of 

the mother of the prosecutrix Gomti is forthcoming.  He submits that 

the prosecutrix is a young girl living in a City who was a student at 

the time of the incident (studying in class 9th) who was well­versed in 

worldly affairs.   To say that she was led by the accused Fahim is 

improper   because   she   herself   had   left   her   house   and   voluntarily 

accompanied Fahim to various places.  He also submits that it is an 

admitted case of the prosecution that the prosecutrix was free even to 

make a telephone call to her mother which she did and it was Fahim 

who got her back to Delhi when the mother of the prosecutrix made 

them understand and he also voluntarily accompanied them to the 

Police Station showing that the prosecutrix was a consenting party 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park               Page 29 of 38
 and he entertained no malafide's and he has in this regard relied upon 

the case of  S. Varadarajan Vs. State of Madras  reported in  AIR  

1965 Supreme Court 942 (V 52 C 150).
(46)             The   Ld.   Public   Prosecutor   on   the   other   hand   has 

submitted that there is no reason to disbelieve the date of birth of the 

prosecutrix given in the Date of Birth Certificate.   He submits that 

the said certificate had been prepared on the basis of the information 

given by the grandmother of the prosecutrix on the very next day of 

her birth.  He submits that it is a matter of common knowledge and 

practice that the senior members of the family i.e. grand­parents etc. 

given the name of the child at the time of birth itself which name is 

then formally announced later.  He further submits that the mother of 

the   prosecutrix   in   her  testimony   before  the  Court  has  specifically 

stated that she is known by both the names i.e. Gomti as well as 

Sunita and hence in view of the above explanations there is no reason 

to   disbelieve   the   prosecution   version.     The   Ld.   Addl.   Public 

Prosecutor has also submitted that the prosecutrix being a minor her 

consent if any is immaterial as she is not legally capable of given a 

consent in view of her age (legally being below the age of consent).

(47)           I have considered the rival contentions and I do not find 

much merit in the arguments advanced by the Ld. Defence counsel 

before me.  The mother of the prosecutrix having explained that she 

is known by both Gomti and Sunita and the name of the father of the 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park          Page 30 of 38
 prosecutrix   i.e.  Santosh Kumar being mentioned in the Certificate 

and also address on the date of birth certificate being the same on 

which   the   prosecutrix   and  her  family  are even  presently  residing, 

there is no reason to doubt the version of the prosecution and I hold 

that Gomti and Sunita are same.  
(48)           Further,   in   so  far as  the  argument  of  the  Ld. Defence 

Counsel / Amicus Curiae regarding the prosecutrix being mature to 

understand the nature of her act I may observe that no doubt this is a 

case where the prosecutrix 'P' had of her own eloped with accused 

Fahim and there can be no two views about it.  But, I may observe 

that at the time of incident the prosecutrix 'P' being a minor around 

16 years of age (about 15 years 3 months of age) and was hence 

legally not capable of giving a consent.  
(49)           Coming now to the aspect of consent of the prosecutrix 

and the age of consent as provided under law and the ratio of the 

Hon'ble Apex Court as laid in the case of S. Varadarajan Vs. State  

of Madras reported in AIR 1965 Supreme Court 942 (V 52 C 150) I 

may   note   that   in   the   said   case   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   had 

observed that:
(50)           The statutory law of this country is designed to protect 

minors   /   be  it   the   victim  or  the   accused.    No  doubt,  the   Hon'ble 

Supreme Court in the case of  S. Varadarajan Vs. State of Madras  

(Supra) given the benefit of doubt to the accused by refusing to apply 

the age of majority  stricto­senso  keeping in view the fact that the 

prosecutrix was at the verge of attaining majority.  However, recently 

with   the   coming   in   of   the   Juvenile   Justice   Act   and   the   POCSO 

(Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act) the logic of S. 

Varadarajan   appears   to   have   been   diluted   particularly   after   the 

insistence by the Courts of Law to apply the age as provided by the 

Legislatures  stricto­senso  which   has   been   done   by   ignoring   and 

without   taking   into   consideration   the   mental   and   physical 

development of the individuals.  
(51)           Courts   of   law   cannot   indulge   into   double   speak   by 

adopting two standards.  One for the juvenile / accused and another 

for the victim / prosecutrix.  If a juvenile / accused is held entitled to 

the benefit of juvenility even if he / she is few days lesser than the 

age provided by the statute irrespective of the biological and mental 

development, then by the same logic so also the prosecutrix / victim 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park                 Page 32 of 38
 in case of a sexual offence is required to be protected even if she is at 

the verge of attaining majority or is few days less than the age of 

consent provided by the statute which is irrespective of her assumed 

mental or biological development.  
(52)           We   have   travelled   a   long   way   since   the   case   of  S.  

Varadarajan Vs. State of Madras (Supra) and a young teenage boy 

is no longer as described by Rabindra Nath Tagore in the "Home  

Coming" ..... neither ornamental nor useful nor somebody who does 

not know how to behave when he is in the company of elders or 

when he is in the company of children.... Youngsters today are fully 

updated   and   informed,   thanks   to   the   electronic   and   technological 

development.   Despite the same if the legislatures and   so also the 

Courts in their wisdom feel that there should be no indulgence given 

and the age provided under the Act has to be construed stricto­senso, 

then so be it.  However, speaking for myself I feel that an exception 

can be carved out and ought to be carved out given the fact that in 

certain   communities   /   religious   groups   (Personal   Laws   governing 

marriage) the age of puberty is the age of marriage implying thereby 

that there is a social and religious acceptance of the age of puberty 

to be the age of sexual maturity.  This, of course, is a call which has 

to be taken by the Legislatures and the Constitutional Courts and I 

am informed that perhaps the Hon'ble Apex Court has in fact taken 

this call.  In so far as I am concerned, I have no choice but to fall in 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park             Page 33 of 38
 line with the mandate of the Legislation and of the Hon'ble Apex 

Court that far.  It cannot be said on one hand by applying the logic of 

S.  Varadarajan  that  a  victim  girl  who is an educated City girl  is 

capable   of   thinking   for   herself   and   acting   on   her   own   for   which 

reason benefit has to be given to the accused whereas on the other 

hand that a juvenile / accused equally educated and informed would 

not be capable of thinking for himself and acting on his own merely 

because  he  is   a   few  days  /   months less  than  attaining  the age of 

majority because the statutory age as provided under the Act has to 

be  applied  stricto­senso  (irrespective  of   the   mental   and  biological 

development) and hence the logic has to be even handed.

(53)           Technically   and   legally   the   accused   Fahim   had   taken 

away the minor prosecutrix with intention of marrying her without 

the consent of her parents / lawful guardians and had made sexual 

relations with a minor aged less than 16 years and it is this which 

makes him liable for the offence under  Section 363  and also under 

Section 376 Indian Penal Code. 


FINAL CONCLUSION:
(54)           In the case of  Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of  

Maharastra, AIR 1984 SC 1622, the Apex Court has laid down the 

tests which are pre­requisites before conviction should be recorded, 

which are as under:
State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park              Page 34 of 38
(55)           Applying   the   above   principles   of   law   to   the   facts   of 

present case, it is evident that the investigations conducted including 

the documents prepared in the present case have been substantially 

proved  by  the  police  witnesses including the investigating officer. 

From the evidence on record the following facts stand established:

(56)           It is evident that in fact the prosecutrix was a consenting 

party and had voluntarily accompanied the accused on her own.  She 

did not raise any alarm at any place and admits that even at the house 

of  Jumma,   she   stayed   with  other  ladies  of  the  house  and  did not 

disclose to anybody how the Fahim brought her.   There was also 

sufficient opportunity to the prosecutrix to raise an alarm when she 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park         Page 36 of 38
 was taken by Fahim to Bariely, which she did not do which indicates 

her  consent.     However, at  the time of  incident  the prosecutrix 'P' 

being a minor less than 16 years of age (about 15 years 3 months of 

age)   and   was   legally   incapable   of   giving   a   consent   and   therefore 

legally & technically under the given circumstances the consent, if 

any,   becomes  immaterial  and  therefore I  hereby hold the accused 

Fahim   @   Raju   guilty   of   the   offence   under  Section   363  and  376 

Indian Penal Code for which he is accordingly convicted.

(57)           In so far as the accused Jumma is concerned,   I hereby 

hold that the circumstances reflected from the material on record do 

not stand conclusively established.  The facts are also not consistent 

only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.   The material 

brought on record by the prosecution are insufficient to hold that the 

accused   is   guilty   beyond   reasonable   doubt.   Further,   each 

circumstance   has   not   been   proved   beyond   reasonable   doubt.   The 

prosecution   has   also   not   established   a   conclusive   link   connecting 

each individual circumstance with the other, and the accused Jumma. 

Crucially, the materials and evidence on record do not bridge the gap 

between "may be true" and must be true" so essential for a court to 

see, while finding the guilty of an accused.  In view of the above, the 

accused Jumma is hereby acquitted of the charge under Section 212 

Indian Penal Code.  

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park             Page 37 of 38
 (58)           Be   listed   for   arguments   on   sentence   qua   the   convict 

Fahim on 4.2.2013.

    IN THE COURT OF Dr. KAMINI LAU: ADDL. SESSIONS 
    JUDGE­II (NORTH­WEST): ROHINI COURTS: DELHI

Sessions Case No. 72/2012
Unique Case ID: 02404R0181452012

State                       Vs.    1.     Fahim @ Raju
                                          S/o Naim
                                          R/o J­320, Jahangirpuri, Delhi
                                          (Village : Joya, Tehsil : Amroha,
                                          Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh.)
                                          (Convicted)

                                     2.   Jumma 
                                          S/o late Sh. Ajij
                                          R/o Village Sonali, Tehsil Amroha
                                          Distt.: Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh
                                          (Acquitted) 

FIR No.                     :             116/2012
Police Station              :             Mahendra Park 
Under Section               :             363/376 Indian Penal Code


Date of Conviction:                       30.01.2013

Arguments concluded on:                   7.2.2013

Date of sentence:                         11.2.2013

APPEARANCE:
Present:      Sh. Sukhbeer Singh, Addl. Public Prosecutor for the State.

              Convict Fahim @ Raju in Judicial Custody with Sh. 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park          Page 39 of 38
               Hitender Sakarwal Advocate / Amicus Curiae.
ORDER ON SENTENCE:
              Vide   a   detailed   judgment   dated   30.1.2013   the   accused 

Fahim @ Raju has been held guilty of the offence under Sections 363 

and 376 Indian Penal Code.   Further, the accused Jumma has been 

acquitted of the charge under Section 212 Indian Penal Code.

              The  case   of   the   prosecution   is   that    in   the   intervening 

night   of   26­27   April,   2012   between   10:00   PM   to   1:00   AM 

(midnight),   at   J­1404,   Jahangirpuri,   the   accused   Fahim   @   Raju 

kidnapped the prosecutrix 'P' a minor aged about 15 years, from the 

lawful   guardianship   of   her   parents   and   thereafter   he   took   the 

prosecutrix to Moradabad at the house of his maternal uncle / mama 

i.e. co­accused Jumma where he kept her for two days.  It has been 

further   alleged   that   between   27.4.2012   till   1.5.2012   the   accused 

Fahim @ Raju committed rape upon the minor prosecutrix 'P'.

              The  prosecutrix   'P'   has   appeared   before   this   Court   and 

made specific allegations against the accused Fahim @ Raju. On the 

basis of the testimonies of the various witnesses examination by the 

prosecution particularly the prosecutrix 'P', her mother Smt. Sunita 

and also on the basis of other circumstantial evidence on record, this 

court   vide   judgment   dated   30.1.2013   observed  that   the   accused 

Fahim @ Raju was known to the prosecutrix 'P' prior to the incident 

residing   in   the   same  area;  that  at  the  time  of  the  incident   i.e. on 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park               Page 40 of 38
 26.4.2012 the prosecutrix was hardly aged about 15 years 3 months 

(not even arrived at the age of consent) and was studying in class 9th); 

that on the date of incident i.e. intervening night of 26­27.4.2012 the 

prosecutrix   met   the   accused   Fahim   @   Raju   who   promised   her 

marriage and she accompanied him; that the accused Fahim took the 

prosecutrix to Moradabad to the house of his mama (maternal uncle) 

Jumma   where   he   stayed   for   two   days;   that   from   Moradabad,   the 

accused Fahim took the prosecutrix to Bariely where they stayed for 

one day; that during the period the prosecutrix stayed with Fahim at 

Bariely, he made physical relations with her; that from Bariely the 

prosecutrix 'P' made a telephone call to her mother Sunita @ Gomti 

who made her understand after which both the prosecutrix and the 

accused Fahim came back to Delhi; that both the accused and the 

prosecutrix met Sunita @ Gomti at Jahangir Puri Metro Station from 

where they went to the Police Station.
                            In the Judgment this court observed that:
                "........ The statutory law of this country is designed  

                to protect minors / be it the victim or the accused.  

                No doubt, the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case of  

                S.   Varadarajan  Vs. State  of  Madras  reported  in  

                AIR 1965 Supreme Court 942 (V 52 C 150) given  

                the benefit of doubt to the accused by refusing to  

                apply the age of majority stricto­senso keeping in  

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park          Page 41 of 38
                 view the fact that the prosecutrix was at the verge  

                of attaining majority.   However, recently with the  

                coming   in   of   the   Juvenile   Justice   Act   and   the  

                POCSO   (Protection   of   Children   from   Sexual  

                Offences Act) the logic of S. Varadarajan appears  

                to   have   been   diluted   particularly   after   the  

                insistence by the Courts of Law to apply the age as  

                provided   by   the   Legislatures   stricto­senso   which  

                has been done by ignoring and without taking into  

                consideration the mental and physical development  

                of the individuals.  
                                              The   Courts   of   Law   cannot  

                indulge   into   double   speak   by   adopting   two  

                standards.   One   for   the   juvenile   /   accused   and  

                another for the victim / prosecutrix.  If a juvenile /  

                accused is held entitled to the benefit of juvenility  

                even   if   he   /   she   is   few   days   lesser   than   the   age  

                provided   by   the   statute   irrespective   of   the  

                biological   and   mental   development,   then   by   the  

                same logic so also the prosecutrix / victim in case  

                of a sexual offence is required to be protected even  

                if she is at the verge of attaining majority or is few  

                days less than the age of consent provided by the  

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park                     Page 42 of 38
                 statute which is irrespective of her assumed mental  

                or biological development.  
                              We have travelled a long way since the  

                case   of  S.   Varadarajan   Vs.   State   of   Madras  

                (Supra)  and a young teenage boy is no longer as  

                described by Rabindra Nath Tagore in the "Home  

                Coming"  .....   neither   ornamental   nor   useful   nor  

                somebody who does not know how to behave when  

                he is in the company of elders or when he is in the  

                company of children.... Youngsters today are fully  

                updated and informed, thanks to the electronic and  

                technological development.  Despite the same if the  

                legislatures and  so also the Courts in their wisdom  

                feel that there should be no indulgence given and  

                the age provided under the Act has to be construed  

                stricto­senso, then so be it.  However, speaking for  

                myself I feel that an exception can be carved out  

                and ought to be carved out given the fact that in  

                certain   communities   /   religious   groups   (Personal  

                Laws governing marriage) the age of puberty is the  

                age  of   marriage implying thereby that  there is a  

                social   and   religious   acceptance   of   the  age   of  

                puberty to be the age of sexual maturity.  This, of  

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park          Page 43 of 38
                 course,   is   a   call   which   has   to   be   taken   by   the  

                Legislatures   and   the   Constitutional   Courts   and   I  

                am informed that perhaps the Hon'ble Apex Court  

                has   in   fact   taken   this   call.     In   so   far   as   I   am  

                concerned, I have no choice but to fall in line with  

                the mandate of the Legislation and of the Hon'ble  

                Apex Court that far.  It cannot be said on one hand  

                by   applying   the   logic   of   S.   Varadarajan   that   a  

                victim girl who is an educated City girl is capable  

                of thinking for herself and acting on her own for  

                which reason benefit has to be given to the accused  

                whereas on the other hand that a juvenile / accused  

                equally   educated   and   informed   would   not   be  

                capable of thinking for himself and acting on his  

                own merely because he is a few days / months less  

                than   attaining   the   age   of   majority   because   the  

                statutory age as provided under the Act has to be  

                applied   stricto­senso   (irrespective   of   the   mental  

                and   biological   development)   and   hence   the   logic  

                has to be even handed...".


              This being the background, it was observed by this Court 

that technically and legally the accused Fahim had taken away the 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park                     Page 44 of 38
 minor prosecutrix with intention of marrying her without the consent 

of her parents / lawful guardians and had made sexual relations with 

a minor aged less than 16 years and it is this which makes him liable 

for the offence under Section 363 and also under Section 376 Indian 

Penal Code. 
              In so far as the accused Jumma is concerned, it has been 

held   that   the   prosecution   has   been   failed   to   establish   beyond 

reasonable doubt that the accused Jumma had relevant mens­rea or 

had   physically   detained   and   kept   the  prosecutrix   at   his   house   for 

ulterior motives or that he was involved with Fahim in any manner. 

Prosecution has also failed to establish beyond reasonable doubt that 

accused Jumma (Mama of Fahim) had accompanied Fahim and the 

prosecutrix   to   Bariely.     Therefore,   the   accused   Jumma   has   been 

acquitted of the charge under Section 212 Indian Penal Code.

              Heard arguments on the point of sentence. The convict 

Fahim @ Raju is stated to be a young boy of 19 years of age.  He is a 

Barber   by   profession   and   is   having   a   family   comprising   of   a 

handicap   father,   mother,   one   younger   brother   and   two   sisters 

including one married sister.  It is argued by the Ld. Defence Counsel 

that the convict belongs to very poor family and there is no earning 

member in his family except the convict.   He has argued that the 

convict is a first time offender and is not involved in any other case. 

He   has   pointed   out   that   the   convict   is   in   judicial   custody   since 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park               Page 45 of 38
 1.5.2012 and any harsh view would be detrimental not only to the 

young convict but also to his family members. 
               On the other hand, the Ld. Addl. Public Prosecutor has 

prayed for a stern view against the convict keeping in view the nature 

of   allegations   involved   and   also   in   view   of   the   fact   that   the 

prosecutrix 'P' is a minor aged about 15 years and 3 months.  He has 

argued that the convict deserves no leniency.  
               I have considered the rival contentions.   At the stage of 

sentence, since the convict had claimed that he was around 19 years 

of   age,   in   order   to   confirm   the   same,   this   Court   again   made   an 

inquiry from the convict Fahim @ Raju who asserted that he was 

around 19 years and his actual date of birth is not known.   He has 

three younger siblings of which his sister Gulshan is three­four years 

younger to him & had studied till class 8th; his brother Wasim had 

studied till class third and the youngest sister Mehbis is still studying 

in class 5th.   The mother of the convict namely Smt. Farveena who 

was also present in the Court has been unable to confirm the exact 

date of birth of convict Fahim @ Raju but concedes that he is a major 

more than 19 years of age showing that he was more than 18 years at 

the time of the incident in April 2012 and hence, I proceed with the 

sentence.   
               I may observe that the minimum punishment prescribed 

for the offence under Section 376 Indian Penal Code is seven years 


State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park               Page 46 of 38
 and fine.  The convict is a young boy who is accused of a technical 

offence.  A lenient view is taken against him and I hereby award the 

following sentences to the convict Fahim @ Raju:

1.    For   the   offence   under  Section   363   Indian   Penal   Code  the 

      convict is sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of 

      Two years  and fine to the tune of  Rs.5,000/­.   In default of 

      payment of fine the convict shall undergo Simple Imprisonment 

      for a period of Ten Days.
2.    For   the   offence   under  Section   376   Indian   Penal   Code  the 

      convict is sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of 

      Seven (7) Years and fine to the tune of Rs.10,000/­.  In default 

      of  payment   of  fine the convict  shall  further undergo  Simple 

      Imprisonment for a period of Twenty Days. 
              Both the sentences shall run concurrently.   Benefit of 

Section 428 Code of Criminal Procedure shall be given to the 

convict for the period already undergone by him during the trial, 

as per rules.  
              Coming   now   to   the   aspect   of  compensation   to   the 

victim, I may observe that rape of a minor not only affects her alone 

but such an incident leaves a devastating impact on her entire family 

who equally suffer in silence.  The prosecutrix 'P' was given hearing 

at the stage  of sentence on the aspect of her rehabilitation during 

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park        Page 47 of 38
 which she submitted that she is 9th  class pass and does not wish to 

study further but states that she wants to do a Computer Course.  She 

submits that she belongs to a poor family.  The victim at the time of 

the incident was hardly aged 15 years and 3 months.  It is cases like 

these which the Ministry of Women and Child development needs to 

target for Restorative Justice so that necessary support is provided to 

the victim.     The Hon'ble Apex Court has time and again observed 

that the subordinate Courts trying the offences of sexual assault have 

the jurisdiction to award the compensation to the victims being an 

offence against the basic human right and violative of Article 21 of 

the Constitution of India.   It has been so observed by Hon'ble Mr. 

Justice   S.   Saghir   Ahmed   and   Justice   Kuldip   Singh  (Ref: 

Bodhisattwa   Gautam   Vs.   Subhra   Chakraborty  reported   in  AIR  

1996 SC 922) that the jurisdiction to pay compensation (interim and 

final) has to be treated to be a part of the over all jurisdiction of the 

Courts trying the offences of rape which is an offence against basic 

human rights as also the Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty and 

Life.  
              Therefore   in   order   to   provide   Restorative   and 

Compensatory Justice to the victim in view of which I hereby direct 

the GNCT of Delhi through  the Principal Secretary (Social Welfare)

to ensure that the prosecutrix 'P' daughter of Sh. Santosh, R/o J­1404,  

Jahangir Puri, Delhi  is attached to some NGO for her counselling and

State Vs. Fahim @ Raju, FIR No. 116/12, PS Mahindra Park    Page 48 of 38
 also to ensure that she is provided some Vocational Training
(preferably Computers) as per her desires to ensure her rehabilitation
the expenses of which be borne by the Government of NCT of Delhi.

              A copy of this order be sent to the  Principal Secretary 

(Social   Welfare)  and  Director,   Department   of   Social   Welfare 

(Women and Child Development), GNCT of Delhi for information 

and necessary action under intimation to this Court.

              The convict is informed that he has a right to prefer an 

appeal against this judgment.   He has been apprised that in case he 

cannot afford to engage an advocate, he can approach the Legal Aid 

Cell, functioning in Tihar Jail or write to the Secretary, Delhi High 

Court Legal Services Committee, 34­37, Lawyers Chamber Block, 

High Court of Delhi, New Delhi.
              Copy of the judgment and order on sentence be given to 

the convict free of costs and another be attached along with his jail 

warrants.
              File be consigned to Record Room.

