1               The   present   case   relates   to   a   child   S,   who   was   victim   of 

repeated penetrative sexual assault by her own father.  The last such incident 

is stated to have occurred on 15.03.2013, when the mother of the victim child, 

(name of the victim child is mentioned in the charge sheet and the charge, 


SC No. 62/13                         State Vs. Narender                     Page No. 1 of 20
                                               2

however the same has not been mentioned in the judgment to protect the 

identity of the victim child), a minor girl aged about 11 years, had gone for 

visit to her relatives house and the victim child and her siblings were alone in 

the   house   with   their   father   /   accused.     The   accused   is   alleged   to   have 

committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim child at night, when her 

other two siblings were asleep.  The victim child told about acts of her father / 

accused to her mother on 17.03.2013 and thereafter the matter was reported 

to the police.  The case has been registered on complaint made by the victim 

child S and on the same day, accused was also arrested. During the course 

of   investigation,   the   victim   child   as   well   as   accused   were   got   medically 

examined.     IO   recorded   statement   of   witnesses.     After   completing 

investigations, charge sheet was prepared and filed in the Court.



2               Upon committal of this case to the court of Sessions, charges 

for the offence under Sections 9 punishable u/s. 10 of POCSO Act, 2012 r/w 

Section 5 punishable u/s. 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and u/s.506 of IPC was 

framed against the accused Narender.   However, the accused pleaded not 

guilty   and  claimed   trial   and   thereafter,  the   case   was  fixed   for  prosecution 

evidence.


3               In   order   to   prove   its   case   prosecution   has   examined   13 

witnesses :­




SC No. 62/13                          State Vs. Narender                     Page No. 2 of 20
                                             3

4              PW­1, HC Dharmender, is the duty officer, who had recorded 

the case FIR in the present case.  He proved the endorsement made by him 

on rukka as Ex.PW­1 and the computerized copy of FIR as Ex.PW­1/B.



5              The PW­2, Anuradha is member of NGO Nav Sristi and she had 

gone to PS Begumpur on 17.03.2013, on receiving call from the duty officer, 

to counsel the prosecutrix and her mother and had also accompanied them 

to hospital for medical examination of the prosecutrix and deposed regarding 

the same.


6              The   PW­3,   Mrs.   Krishna   Dabas,   is   the   Principal   from   Nagar 

Nigam  Prathmik  Pratibha  Vidhyalaya,  wherein   prosecutrix  was  admitted   in 

First  Class  on  the  basis of admission form and  affidavit  submitted by her 

mother Smt. Sangeeta.   The PW­3 proved copy of the admission form and 

affidavit as Ex.Pw­3/A and Ex.PW­3/B respectively by producing the original 

record.   She also proved the certificate issued by school, wherein date of 

birth   of   prosecutrix   was   mentioned   as   28.12.2001,   as   Ex.PW­3/C   and 

photocopy   of   the   relevant   entry   in   the   school   admission   register   as 

Ex.PW­3/D.


7              The PW­4, S is the victim child while PW­5 Smt. Sangeeta is 

the mother of the child S and their testimonies would be discussed at length 

in the following paragraphs.

SC No. 62/13                       State Vs. Narender                    Page No. 3 of 20
                                             4



8               The PW­6, Dr. Bina, was posted at SGM Hospital as CMO on 

17.03.2013 and had medically examined the victim child S, prepared her MLC 

Ex.PW­6/A   and   referred   her   to   Gynecology   Department   for   further 

examination and management and deposed regarding the same.



9               On   the   same   day,   she   also   examined   accused   vide   MLC 

Ex.PW­6/B and gave opinion regarding the sexual potency of the accused 

and deposed that in her opinion 'there was nothing to suggest that accused 

was not capable of performing the act of sexual intercourse'.



10              The PW­13 Dr. Parminder was deputed in place of Dr. Aditi, who 

had conducted gynecological examination of the victim child.  She proved the 

observations   made   by   Dr.   Aditi   on   MLC   Ex.PW­6/A,   of   the   victim   child, 

wherein Dr. Aditi had observed that 'on examination, no sign of external injury 

were found on the body and hymen was found torn and that there was old 

hymenal   healed   tear   present.'     She   also   proved   the   medical   examination 

report for sexual assault victims, in respect of the victim  child, prepared by 

Dr. Aditi as Ex.PW­13/A by identifying handwriting and signatures of Dr. Aditi 

thereupon.   


11              The   PW­7,   HC   Ram   Kumar,   was   posted   as   MHCM   at   PS 

Begumpur at the relevant time.  He produced the original register No.19 and 


SC No. 62/13                        State Vs. Narender                    Page No. 4 of 20
                                                5

proved the relevant entries of deposit of the exhibits of the case at the PS 

and sending them to FSL Rohini as Ex.PW­7/A to Ex.PW­7/D.



12              The PW­8, ASI Chhaju Ram is the initial IO of the case.   He 

deposed   that   on   17.03.2013   he   was   posted   on   emergency   duty   at   PS 

Begumpur  and   that  on   that  day  at  about  2:30   PM,  on   receipt  of  call   that 

"father had attempted to commit wrong act with his daughter", PW­8 along 

with   HC   Mangal   went   to   the   place   of   incident   i.e.   the   residence   of   the 

prosecutrix where he met victim child S and her mother Smt. Sangeeta, who 

told him that father of victim child S had committed wrong act with her and 

that he passed on this information to duty officer with request to send a lady 

officer   and   that   after   sometime   W/SI   Manju   came   there   along   with   L/Ct. 

Rekha and Ct. Sudesh and PW­8 produced victim child S and her mother 

before her.  


13              The PW­9, Sh. Dharmender Singh, learned MM, had conducted 

proceedings u/s 164 Cr.P.C.   He proved application moved before him for 

recording   the   statement   of   victim   child   as   Ex.   PW­9/A   ;   statement   of   the 

victim   child   u/s   164   Cr.P.C   as   Ex.   PW­9/B,   certificate   appended   to   the 

statement as Ex. PW­9/C and the application of IO for supply of copies as 

Ex. PW­9/D. 


14              The PW­12, W/SI Manju, is the investigating officer of the case 


SC No. 62/13                          State Vs. Narender                      Page No. 5 of 20
                                              6

and  she   deposed   that  on  17.03.2013,  an   information   was  received   by her 

regarding commission of an offence of rape and under POCSO Act from PS 

Begumpur and that on the basis of the same, she reached at PS Begumpur 

where she made her arrival entry in DD register and thereafter left for the 

spot   at   Som   Bazaar   Road,   Jain   Nagar,   Delhi,   with   Ct.   Suresh   and   L/Ct. 

Rekha   at   2517,   Gandhi   Enclave,   where   ASI   Chajju   Ram   and   HC   Mangal 

Singh met them and that Smt. Sangeeta and her daughter i.e. prosecutrix 

also met them.     The PW­12 further deposed that she made inquiries from 

them and  recorded the statement of prosecutrix Ex.PW­4/A and on the basis 

of said statement, she made endorsement Ex.PW­12/A and prepared rukka 

and handed over the same to Ct. Suresh for getting the case FIR registered 

at PS.  The PW­12 then deposed that she along with L/Ct. Rekha, prosecutrix 

and   her   mother   Smt.   Sangeeta   went   to   SGM   Hospital   for   medical 

examination of the prosecutrix and that NGO Anuradha reached the hospital 

and counseled the prosecutrix as well as her mother and that thereafter the 

prosecutrix   was   got   medically   examined   vide   her   MLC   Ex.PW­6/A.     The 

PW­12 further deposed that Ct. Suresh came back from PS with copy of FIR 

and original rukka and handed them over to her.   L/Ct. Rekha also handed 

over the exhibits, which were given to her by the concerned doctor who had 

conducted the medical examination of the prosecutrix, and the same were 

taken into possession by PW­12 vide seizure memo Ex.PW­5/A.  The PW­12 

then   deposed   that   they   left   for   the   spot   where   she   prepared   site   plan 

Ex.PW­5/B at the instance of prosecutrix as well as her mother and that since 


SC No. 62/13                         State Vs. Narender                     Page No. 6 of 20
                                               7

the   accused   was   also   present   at   his   home,   she   arrested   him   on   the 

identification of prosecutrix and her mother vide his arrest memo Ex.PW­5/C 

and that thereafter he was personally searched vide personal search memo 

Ex.PW­5/D and that accused made his disclosure statement vide Ex.PW­5/E 

and that thereafter accused was sent to SGM Hospital in the custody of Ct. 

Suresh   for   his   medical   examination   and   after   medical   examination   of   the 

accused, Ct. Suresh handed over two sealed pullandas and one sample seal 

of SGM H to PW­12 which was taken into possession by her vide seizure 

memo Ex.PW­10/A.  Lastly the accused was taken to PS and put in the lock 

up.  


15              The PW­12 further deposed that on 18.03.2013, she went to the 

Nigam Prathmik Kanya Vidhyalaya, Rajiv Nagar, First Shift, Delhi, and met 

the   Principal   Smt.   Krishna   Dabas   and   obtained   certificate   Ex.PW­12/B 

regarding the age proof of the prosecutrix.  


16              The PW­12 then deposed that on the same day i.e. 18.03.2013, 

accused and prosecutrix were produced before the concerned Court and the 

accused was remanded to JC and that she moved an application Ex.PW­9/A 

for recording of statement of prosecutrix u/s.164 CrPC but the Court timing 

was   over   by   that   time   and   the   said   application   could   be   moved   only   on 

19.03.2013   and   that   the   statement   of   the   prosecutrix   Ex.PW­9/B   was 

recorded on 19.03.2013 and that she moved an application Ex.PW­9/D for 


SC No. 62/13                          State Vs. Narender                     Page No. 7 of 20
                                                 8

supply of copy of statement of prosecutrix.   The PW­12 then deposed that 

she got the exhibits deposited with the FSL Rohini, Delhi and recorded the 

statement of concerned witnesses and that on completion of investigation, 

prepared the charge sheet and filed the same in the Court through SHO. 

During her cross­examination, PW­12 denied that she had not investigated 

the case properly.


17              The PW­10 Ct. Suresh had joined investigations with the IO on 

17.03.2013 and had gone to the residence of victim child and from there he 

had brought the rukka, prepared by the IO, to PS, got case FIR registered 

and taken copy of the FIR and original rukka to the IO at SGM Hospital.  He 

had also joined the investigations wherein the prosecutrix had pointed out the 

place of incident to the IO and the subsequent proceedings wherein accused 

was arrested at the instance of the victim child.   He proved the arrest and 

personal   search   memos   of   the   accused   as   Ex.PW­5/C   and   Ex.PW­5/D 

respectively and his disclosure statement as Ex.PW­5/E.   He also deposed 

about getting medical examination of accused conducted and having signed 

as witness on the seizure memo of the exhibits i.e. Ex.PW­10/A.  



18              The   PW­11,   L/Ct.   Rekha   had   joined   the   investigations   of   the 

case   with   the   IO   on   17.03.2013   and   was   also   present   at   the   time   of   the 

medical   examination   of   the   victim   child.     She   proved   her   signatures   on 

Ex.PW­5/A   i.e.   the   seizure   memo   vide   which   exhibits   taken   from   the 


SC No. 62/13                           State Vs. Narender                       Page No. 8 of 20
                                             9

prosecutrix were seized by the IO.  


19             After   closing   the   prosecution   evidence,   the   statement   of 

accused u/s.313 CrPC recorded wherein accused termed all the incriminating 

evidence  against  him  to  be   incorrect  and  stated  that  he  had   been  falsely 

implicated in the case by the victim child, her mother and the NGO officials. 

He did not lead any evidence in his defence.

20             Arguments have been addressed by learned Additional PP as 

well as learned amicus curie.  


21             Learned Additional PP has submitted that from the testimony of 

the   prosecutrix   and   the   other   witnesses   examined   by   it,   prosecution   has 

succeeded in proving its case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. 

On   the   other   hand,   learned   amicus   curie   for   accused   has   filed   written 

submissions on  behalf of accused and  prayed  that in  view of the tutoring 

reflected from the testimony of the victim child and discrepancy in statements 

of prosecution witnesses, accused be acquitted of charged offences.



22             I have heard learned Additional PP and also perused the record 

as well as written submissions filed on behalf of accused.



23             In the present case, the victim child is stated to be aged about 


SC No. 62/13                        State Vs. Narender                    Page No. 9 of 20
                                                10

11 years at the time of incident.  In order to prove that victim was aged about 

11 years at the time of incident, prosecution has produced record from the 

school wherein victim child was admitted in first class and also examined the 

concerned Head Master / Principal as PW­3.  From the record produced by 

PW­3   it   stands   established   that   the   date   of   birth   of   the   victim   child   is 

28.12.2001.  The date of commission of offence is 15.03.2013 and when the 

age of victim child is computed from the date of birth mentioned in the record 

produced by PW­3, her age comes to be 11 years, 2 months and 15 days. 

Thus   from   the   testimony   of   PW­3   and   record   produced   by   her,   the 

prosecution has succeeded in proving that the victim child was aged about 11 

years at the time of incident.  


24              The   next   issue   which   arises   for   consideration   is   whether  the 

accused, who  is real  father of the victim child, had committed  penetrative 

sexual   assault   upon   her.     In   order   to   substantiate   charges   against   the 

accused, prosecution has examined the victim child as PW­4.  The statement 

of  victim   child  was recorded   in   camera   proceedings during  which   Welfare 

Officer   from   Special   Juvenile   Police   Unit,   Outer   District,   was   permitted   to 

remain present as a support person.  Some preliminary questions were put to 

the victim child by the Court to satisfy itself that the victim child was capable 

of  understanding   questions  and   answering   them  reasonably  and  she   also 

understood   the   sanctity   of   speaking   truth.     After   being   so   satisfied   the 

statement of victim child was recorded in question answer form.   The victim  


SC No. 62/13                           State Vs. Narender                     Page No. 10 of 20
                                                11

child   initially   hesitated   in   deposing   about   the   incident   and   started   crying  

bitterly.     As   recorded   in   the   proceedings   she   had   to   be   consoled   by   the  

Welfare   Officer,  who   was  present  as  the   support  person.  The   victim  child 

deposed as under :­ 



                "Q.      Kya hua tha ?
                Ans. Kuch nahi.
                Q.       Police me shikayat kyu kari ?
                Ans. Papa sharab pite the aur mummy ko marte the.
                aur pehle court me bhi aunty se baat kari thi, aaj kyu 

                nahi bata rahe ?
                Ans. Papa ko chudana hai.
               At this stage, the victim S started crying bitterly and after being  

consoled by the Welfare Officer, she further deposed as under :­



               "Q.     Beta kya hua tha ?
               Ans. Papa sharab pikar aaye the. Mummy Badarpur 

               mausi ke pass gayi thi.  Mein so rahi thi.  Chote bhai 

               behein bhi so rahe the.   Papa ne jameen par gadda 

               dala tha.  Unhone mujhe niche khich liya.  Meri kachhi 

               uttari   aur   apni   ungali   meri   toiletwali   jagah   me   dali. 

               Aage wali jagah se ungali dali.   Unhone kaha tu to 

               badi ho gayi hai, mujhe toh pata nahi chala.  Papa ne 

               apni pant uttar di aur apni toiletwali jagah mere hath 

               me de di.  Uske baad me toilet chali gayi.  
               The witness has been shown her statement recorded 

               by IO and identifies her signatures at point "A".   The 

               said statement is now exhibited as Ex.PW­4/A."

SC No. 62/13                         State Vs. Narender                      Page No. 12 of 20
                                            13



                At this stage, witness started weeping again and asked 'Papa 

chut Jayenge'.  She was again consoled by the Welfare Officer.



25              Only   question   put   to   the   victim   child   during   her   cross­

examination was whether she had been tutored to depose in the Court to 

which she responded by saying 'Nahi sach bol rahi hu'.  



26              The testimony of the victim child duly supports the testimony of 

victim child qua the allegations of sexual assault.  As per MLC Ex.PW­6/A of 

the victim child, though no external injuries were found on the body of child S, 

her   hymen   was   found   torn   and   there   was   an   old   hymenal   healed   tear 

present.  It is noteworthy that victim child report the matter to her mother after 

about two days of the incident and thus the finding in her MLC of old hymenal 

healed tear.   The testimony of victim child S is also corroborated partly by 

testimony of her mother, to whom she had narrated about the incident further 

first time.  

27              The PW­5, Smt. Sangeeta, the mother of the victim child, and 

deposed that the prosecutrix was her eldest child and that on 15.03.2013, she 

had gone to Badarpur, with her elder sister, to see her ailing son­in­law at 

Badarpur and came back from there on 16.03.2013 and that on her coming 

back to home, she found that her daughter i.e. the prosecutrix was quiet and 


SC No. 62/13                        State Vs. Narender                 Page No. 13 of 20
                                                   14

was in a state of shock.  She further deposed that she made inquiries from 

prosecutrix repeatedly and thereafter she told PW­5 that her father, who was 

under the influence of liquor at night, had spoken to her some wrong words. 

The PW­5 further deposed that after hearing this from her daughter out of 

anger, she called the police by dialing number 100 and that police reached at 

her house and took the accused to PS where statement of her daughter was 

recorded by the police in her presence and prosecutrix told whatever had 

happened with her to the police.  


28                During   the   cross­examination   by  learned   amicus   curie.     The 

PW­5 deposed that on earlier occasions also she had gone away from her 

home for  1  / 2  days  leaving  behind  the  children  with  the accused.     She 

admitted that on none of the earlier occasions, accused misbehaved with any 

of the children and that prosecutrix had never made any complaint against 

the accused regarding any misconduct.  
    

29               Learned  Amicus Curie  has contended  that  the  victim child   is 

prone   to   tutoring   and   that   is   why   in   the   first   instance   she   failed   to   state 

anything   against   her   father   /   accused   and   started   crying   bitterly.     This 

contention of learned Amicus Curie is apparently without any substance for it 

is  to be  remembered  that the  present  case  pertains to  penetrative sexual 

assault   on   a   victim   child   aged   about   11   years,   who   at   that   time   was 

physically, financially and psychologically dependent upon accused, who is 


SC No. 62/13                             State Vs. Narender                       Page No. 14 of 20
                                           15

her father.  Further the mother of child S was also financially dependent on 

her husband i.e. the accused.  In these circumstances, there would naturally 

be immense pressure from the family itself, upon victim child S, to exonerate 

accused of all the allegations.   It is, in fact, a practice in cases of incest to 

conceal the incident rather than to report it for the fear of financial deprivation 

and defamation of the family honour even though at the risk of the victim in 

the family.  From the testimony of PW­4, victim child S, it is apparent that she 

too tried to conceal the illegal act of her father / accused before she actually 

narrated the incident before the Court.   The trauma and plight of the victim 

child S is clearly brought out from her testimony and it is seen that at least 

twice, while  recording   her  testimony,  she  started  crying   bitterly.    The  only 

reason why victim child S hesitated in deposing about the incident in the first 

instance is clearly reflected in her testimony wherein she stated "Papa ko 

chutana hai" (I want my father to be released).  However, when she deposed 

subsequently she clearly narrated about the manner in which the accused 

committed penetrative sexual assault upon her.   The testimony of child S / 

PW­4 is found to be clear, cogent and reliable.  


30             It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of 

a child witness is permissible if such witness is found competent to testify 

and the court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence, In case of Dattu Ramrao  

Sakhare Vs. State of Maharashtra (1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that,




SC No. 62/13                       State Vs. Narender                  Page No. 15 of 20
                                                 16

               " A child witness if found competent to depose to the 

               facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis 

               of conviction.   In  other words even in the absence of 

               oath the evidence of a child witness can be considered 

               under   Section   118   of   the   Evidence   Act   provided   that 

               such witness is able to understand the questions and 

               able to give rational answers thereof.  The evidence of a 

               child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon 

               the circumstances of each case.   The only precaution 

               which the court should bear in mind while assessing the 

               evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a 

               reliable one and his / her demeanor must be like any 

               other  competent   witness   and   there   is   no  likelihood   of 

               being tutored."


31             In case of Pancchi Vs. State of U.P., AIR 1998 SC 2726, it was 

further  held :­



               "It   is   not   the   law   that   if   a   witness   is   a   child   his 

               evidence shall be rejected, even if it is found reliable. 

               The  law  is that evidence  if a child witness must be 

               evaluated   more   carefully   and   with   greater 

               circumspection  because a  child  is susceptible  to  be 


SC No. 62/13                           State Vs. Narender                         Page No. 16 of 20
                                                 17

                 swayed   by   what   others   tell   them   and   this   a   child 

                 witness is easy prey to tutoring." 


32               The next contention raised by learned amicus curie is that PW­5 

Smt. Sangeeta, mother of the victim child S, has not supported the version 

put forth by the victim as she has stated that victim child S had only told her 

that her father had spoken wrong words to her at night under influence of 

liquor, and that after hearing the same, out of anger, she called the police. 

He has also stated that PW­5 has admitted during her cross­examination that 

accused   had   never   misbehaved   with   any   of  the   children,   in  her  absence, 

earlier and that child S too had never made any complaint against accused 

regarding any misconduct prior to the incident reported on 17.03.2013.  This 

contention  of  learned   amicus  curie   can   also   not  be   sustained   for  obvious 

reasons viz the financial dependence of PW­5 Smt. Sangeeta on accused for 

her   own   maintenance   and   for   maintenance   of   their   children.     The   social 

stigma attached to the incident is also one of the apparent reason for PW­5 

changed   her   stand   during   her   deposition   before   the   Court.     She   has 

otherwise admitted in her examination in chief that statement of child S was 

recorded   by  the   police   in   her   presence   and   at   that   time   child   S   had   told 

whatever had happened with her to the police thereby affirming that whatever 

was stated by victim S in her complaint Ex.PW­4/A, wherein she had for the 

first   time   made   a   written   complaint   against   the   acts   of   sexual   abuse   by 

accused / her father, were correct.  Thus the fact that PW­5 Smt. Sangeeta 


SC No. 62/13                           State Vs. Narender                      Page No. 17 of 20
                                               18

has   not   fully   supported   the   testimony   of   victim   child   S   does   not   entitle 

accused to be absolved of charges against him.  


33              Another contention raised by learned amicus curie is that the 

present case is an outcome of matrimonial disputes between the accused 

and PW­5 Smt. Sangeeta.  However, it is seen that nothing has been brought 

on   record   by  the   defence   to   show   that   the   matrimonial   relations   between 

accused and PW­5 Smt. Sangeeta were strained to such an extent as would 

have necessitated her to incite victim S to file a complaint of such a serious 

nature   against   her   own   father.     From   the   testimony   of   the   witnesses 

examined by the prosecution, it rather appears that accused and PW­5 Smt. 

Sangeeta were having normal matrimonial relations and were living together 

with their children, without any acrimony or dispute, till accused crossed the 

"Laxman Rekha" to sexually abuse his own daughter i.e. victim child S.  



34              There  is  no   hard  and  fact  rule   that  the   conviction   cannot  be 

based on sole testimony of the victim / injured.  The testimony of prosecutrix 

in the present case clearly bring out the traumatic experience she suffered at 

the hands of the accused. Even otherwise in the case of  State of Punjab  

Vs. Gurmit Singh & Ors. AIR 1996 SC 1393, the Supreme Court held that in 

cases involving sexual offences, harassment, molestation  etc. the court is 

duty bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity.  In the said case it 

has been held that :­


SC No. 62/13                          State Vs. Narender                     Page No. 18 of 20
                                               19



               "The courts should examine the broader probabilities of a  

               case   and   not   get   swayed   by   minor   contradictions   or  

               insignificant   discrepancies   in   the   statement   of   the  

               prosecutrix, which are not of a fatal nature, to throw out an  

               otherwise   reliable   prosecution   case.     If   evidence   of   the  

               prosecutrix   inspires  confidence.     It   must  be   relied   upon  

               without seeking corroboration of her statement in material  

               particulars.  If for some reason the court finds it difficult to  

               place   implicit   reliance   on   her   testimony,   it   may   took   for  

               evidence   which   may   lend   assurance   to   her   testimony,  

               short   of   corroboration   required   in   the   case   of   an  

               accomplice.     The   testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   must   be  

               appreciated in the background of the entire case and the  

               trial   court   must   be   alive   to   its   responsibility   and   be  

               sensitive   while   dealing   with   cases   involving   sexual  

               molestations."


35             The   nutshell   of   foregoing   discussion   is   that  I   am   of   the 

considered opinion that the prosecution has successfully proved  the guilt of 

the   accused   Narender   on   record,   beyond   the   reasonable   doubts. 

Accordingly, I hold guilty accused Narender  for the offences u/s.  Section 5 

punishable   u/s.   6   of   POCSO   Act,   2012.     As   regards   the   allegations   of 



SC No. 62/13                         State Vs. Narender                       Page No. 19 of 20
                                                20

aggravated sexual assault and criminal intimidation / threats are concerned, 

the prosecution could not established that accused had touched breast of 

child S and had further threatened to kill child S in case she disclosed about 

the incident to anyone.  Accused is convicted accordingly.  

   

               Accused   produced   from   JC   with   counsel   Sh.   Rajnish   Kumar 

Antil, learned Amicus Curie.
               Statement of accused u/s.313 CrPC recorded.
               Be listed for final arguments on 25.11.2013.               Accused   produced   from   JC   with   counsel   Sh.   Rajnish   Kumar 

Antil, learned Amicus Curie.
               Arguments heard.
               Be   listed   for   remaining   arguments,   if   any,   otherwise   for 

judgment on 27.11.2013.               Accused   produced   from   JC   with   counsel   Sh.   Rajnish   Kumar 

Antil, learned Amicus Curie.

SC No. 62/13                      State Vs. Narender                       Page No. 21 of 20
                                            22
               Remaining arguments heard.
               Vide  separate   judgment  announced  today  in  the  open   Court, 

accused Narender has been convicted u/s.  Section 5 punishable u/s. 6 of 

POCSO Act, 2012.
               Be listed for arguments on the point of sentence on 28.11.2013.               Accused   produced   from   JC   with   counsel   Sh.   Rajnish   Kumar 

Antil, learned Amicus Curie.
               Arguments on the point of sentence heard.
               Be listed for orders on the point of sentence on 29.11.2013.



                                                                  (Illa Rawat)
                                                          Addl. Sessions Judge
                                                               (North­West)­01
                                                                   Rohini/Delhi
                                                                     28.11.2013




SC No. 62/13                       State Vs. Narender                     Page No. 22 of 20
                                         23

    IN THE COURT OF MS. ILLA RAWAT  : ADDL. SESSIONS 
                         JUDGE 
            (NORTH­WEST)­01, ROHINI : DELHI


(Sessions Case No. 62/13)


Unique ID case No. 02404R0156392013


State        Vs.   Narender 
FIR No.    :      90/13
U/s            :      376/506 and & Section 6 of POCSO Act  
P.S.           :      Begum Pur 



State     Vs.          Narender 
                       S/o Rajbir Singh  



29.11.2013  

Present :      Ld. Addl. PP for the State. 
               Convict   produced   from   J.C   with   ld.   Amicus   Curie   Sh. 

Rajnish Kumar Antil 


ORDER ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE


       In  the present case, the convict - Narender   has  been convicted 

u/s 5  POCSO Act punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act.
SC No. 62/13                     State Vs. Narender               Page No. 23 of 20
                                      24
       I   have   heard   the   arguments   on   the   point of sentence put 

forward by Ld. Addl. PP  for State and Ld. Amicus curie  for the convict.



2.     It has been submitted by the Ld.  Addl. PP  that in the present case, 

convict committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon his own 

daughter S, a minor girl aged about eleven years  by touching her breast 

and inserting his finger in the vagina of the victim child and  in view of 

the serious nature  of offence, the convict does not deserve any leniency 

and  she prays  that  maximum  sentence   prescribed under law may be 

imposed upon the convict. 

3.     On the other hand, it has been submitted by the  Ld. Amicus curie 

that the convict­Narender   is   a middle aged man aged about   40 years 

and is married and that he is having wife and two more children, besides 

the victim child, and that  there is no one look after them, in his absence. 

It is further submitted that convict belongs to a low strata of society and 

is first time offender  and that he has already  remained in  custody for a 

period of about nine months since his arrest and during the trial of the 

present case  and he prays that a lenient view may be  taken  in this case 

and he be given a chance of  rehabilitation and be released on probation. 


SC No. 62/13                  State Vs. Narender             Page No. 24 of 20
                                            25
4.       I have carefully considered the submissions made by Ld.  Addl. PP 

and Ld. Amicus curie and have carefully gone through the record of the 

case. 

5.       In the present case, the convict­ Narender  has been convicted  for 

committing   the   offence   of   aggravated   penetrative   sexual   assault 

punishable   u/s-   6   of   POCSO   Act.   It   has   been   brought   out   from   the 

record that the convict, who is the father of the victim child, himself 

committed penetrative sexual assault upon her. At the time of incident, 

the victim child was aged about 11 years.  She and her siblings were left 

in care and custody of convict, who is their father, by their mother, who 

had gone to visit a relative.  The victim was sexually abused within four 

walls of her own house by her own father, who had  showed no respect 

for chastity of his daughter, despite the fact that he was her father and 

child trusted him for her security and protection. 



6.       In a case titled as  State vs. Gurmit, (1996) 2 SCC 384,  it has 

been   held    that   a   rapist   not   only   violates   the   victim's   privacy   and 

personal integrity but inevitably causes serious psychological as well as 

physical harm in the process.  Rape is not merely a physical assault.  It is 


SC No. 62/13                       State Vs. Narender                  Page No. 25 of 20
                                               26

often destructive of the whole personality of the victim.   A murderer 

destroys the physical body of his victim, a rapist degrades the very soul 

of   the   helpless   female.     The   courts,   therefore,   shoulder   a   great 

responsibility while trying an accused on charges of rape.   They must 

deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity.  The courts should examine 

the   broader   probabilities   of   a   case   and   not   yet   swayed   by     minor 

contradictions   or   insignificant   discrepancies   in   the   statement   of   the 

prosecutrix, which are not of a fatal nature. 

7.      In a case titled as 'Dinesh v. State (2006) 3 SCC 771', it has been 

observed   by   the   Hon'ble   Supreme   court   has   observed   that   "sexual 

violence apart from being a dehumanising act is an unlawful intrusion on 

the right of privacy and sanctity of a female.  It is a crime against basis 

human right and is violative of the victim's basic human right. 



8.        Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances, I do not find 

that   it   is   a   fit   case   for   any   leniency   and     I   hereby   sentence   convict 

Narender   to   undergo   rigorous   imprisonment   for   10   (ten)   years,   for 

having committed offences punishable u/s 6 of POCSO Act. I further 

impose a fine  of Rs. 5,000/­ on convict, in default of payment of fine to 

further undergo simple imprisonment for three month, for the offence 


SC No. 62/13                          State Vs. Narender                     Page No. 26 of 20
                                           27

punishable, u/s 6 of POCSO Act. 
         Benefit u/s 428 Cr.PC be also  given to the convict.



9.            Coming now to the aspect of compensation to the victim, who 

is a  minor girl, the Hon'ble Apex Court has time and again observed that 

that subordinate Courts trying the offences of sexual assault have the 

jurisdiction to award the compensation to the victims being an offence 

against   the   basic   human   right   and   violative   of   Article   21   of   the 

Constitution   of   India.     In   a   case   titled   as  Bodhisattwa   Gautam   vs.  

Subhra Chakraborty, AIR 1996 SC 922, it has been held by Hon'ble 

Supreme Court that the jurisdiction to pay compensation (interim and 

final) has to be treated to be a part of the over all jurisdiction of the 

Courts  trying   the  offences  of   rape, which is an offence against  basic 

human rights as also the Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty and 

Life. 

10.      Even otherwise, the concept of welfare and well being of children 

is basic for any civilized society and this has a direct bearing on the state 

of   health   and   well   being   of   the   entire   community,   its   growth   and 

development.     It   has   been   time   and   again   emphasized   in   various 

legislations,   international   declarations   as   well   as   the   judicial 


SC No. 62/13                      State Vs. Narender                  Page No. 27 of 20
                                            28

pronouncements that the Children are a "supremely important national 

asset"   and   the   future   well   being   of   the   nation   depends   on   how   its 

children   grow   and   develop.     In   this   regard   reference   is   made   to   the 

following observations of Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Laxmi Kant  

Pandey Vs. Union of India (1984) 2 SCC, 244, that :

11.            Therefore,   in   order   to   provide   Restorative   and 

Compensatory Justice to the victim i.e prosecutrix, I hereby direct the 

GNCT   of   Delhi   through   Principal   Secretary   (Home)   to   grant 

compensation  to  the tune of  Rs. 1,00,000/­ (Rs. One lac only)  to the 

victim   child.   The   said   amount   shall   be   used   for   her   welfare   and 

rehabilitation, under the supervision of Welfare Officer, so nominated by 

the Government of NCT of Delhi. 

12.            A   copy   of   this   order   be   sent   to   the   Principal   Secretary 

(Home),   GNCT   of   Delhi,   Chief  Secretary,  GNCT  of  Delhi, Principal 

Secretary (Social Welfare), GNCT of Delhi and Director, Department of 

Social Welfare (Women and Child Development), GNCT of Delhi, for 


SC No. 62/13                       State Vs. Narender                   Page No. 30 of 20
                                             31

information and necessary action under intimation to this Court. 



13.            The   convict   is   informed   that   he   has   a   right   to   prefer   an 

appeal   against   this   judgment.       He  has   been  apprised   that   he  cannot 

afford   to   engage   an   advocate,   he   can   approach   the   Legal   Aid   Cell, 

functioning in Tihar Jail or write to Secretary, Delhi High Court, Legal 

Services   Committee,   34­37,   Lawyer   Chamber   Block,   High   Court   of 

Delhi, New Delhi. 

14.            Copies of  the judgment and order on the  point of sentence 

be supplied to the convict, free of cost.
       File be consigned to the record room.

