1.            The case of the prosecution is that on 03.09.2012, at about 11.10 am, at EE 

Block, accused attempted to commit rape upon victim child (hereinafter referred to as 

'P'), aged about 2­1/2 years.     The place of offence is stated to be "parikrama area". 

behind   the   sacred   space   in   the   temple,   where   idols   are   placed.     The   accused   was 

apprehended at the spot itself by mother of the victim child, who also raised alarm and 

informed her husband about the incident.     The police was informed and when police 

reached   the   spot,   accused   was   handed   over   to   the   police.     During   the   course   of 


 SC No. 08/2013                            State Vs. Bhupender                        Page Nos. 1 of 31
                                                     2

investigation, accused as well as the victim child P were got medically examined.   IO 

recorded   statements   of   the   witnesses   and   after   completing   the   investigation,   charge 

sheet was prepared and filed in the court. 

2.            Upon committal of this case to the court of Sessions, charges for the offence 

under Sections 376/511 IPC were framed against the accused Bhupender by my learned 

Predecessor, however, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial and thereafter, 

the   case   was   fixed   for   prosecution   evidence.     On   the   same   day,   the   accused   had 

admitted his arrest memo, personal search memo and MLC and stated that he had no 

objection, if the witnesses in this regard were not examined in the court and thereafter, 

his   statement   was   recorded   and   said   documents   i.e.   Arrest   memo,   personal   search 

memo   and   MLCs   were   exhibited   as   Ex.   PX­1,   Ex.   PX­2,   Ex.   PX­3   and   Ex.   PX­4, 

respectively.   Ld. Predecessor had directed that affidavit of formal witness be filed, but 

after transfer of the case to this court,  all the witnesses were summoned and examined. 



3.            In order to prove its case, the prosecution has examined 14 witnesses. 



4.            The PW­1 Rakesh Saxena, sub­registrar, produced the record of MCD qua 

the victim child, wherein her date of birth was recorded as 05.11.2010.  The witness was 

shown the birth certificate of the victim child P from the judicial record, wherein, her date 

of   birth   was   mentioned   as   05.01.2010.     The   witness   stated   that   after   receiving   the 

summons, he had noted the discrepancy and checked and record and found that there 

was   mistake   in   information   letter   received   from   the   concerned   Hospital   i.e.   B.J.R.M. 

Hospital, wherein in the column of date of birth of child, inadvertently, date had been 


 SC No. 08/2013                            State Vs. Bhupender                         Page Nos. 2 of 31
                                                      3

recorded as 05.11.2010, even though, the said information letter was dated 05.01.2010 

and the said date of birth was registered with the hospital also on 05.01.2010.  He further 

stated   that   the   registration   with   the   Registrar   of   Birth   &   Death,   pursuant   to   the 

information   received   from   the   hospital   was   also   done   on   15.01.2010   and   hence   the 

correct date of birth of the victim child P d/o Usha and Vijay Goel was 05.01.2010.  He 

proved the correct copy of the birth certificate, which was brought by him, as Ex. PW­1/A 

and the photocopy of the hospital form as Ex. PW­1/B.   Further clarification was  sought 

from the witness by the court as the birth certificate Ex. PW­1/A found mention of the 

name of the child, whereas the record produced by PW­1 did not find mention of the 

name   of   the   child.     The   PW­1   responded   by   stating   that   as   per   the   procedure,     a 

certificate without the name of the child was issued to the parents, who thereafter, filed 

an affidavit mentioning the name of the child and after that a birth certificate with the 

name of the child was issued to the parents. 

5.            The PW­10, P is the victim child, who despite her tender age, could testify 

regarding the acts committed by the accused, for which, he was charged. 



6.            The PW­9 Smt. Usha Goel, is the mother of the victim child.  She deposed 

that on 03.09.2012, at about 11.00 am, she was doing household work and that at that 

time, prosecutrix/victim child, who was her third born child and was aged about 2­1/2 at 

that time, asked her to give her money as she said 'Mummy chigi lunggi' and she gave 

her Rs. 1/­ and that thereafter prosecutrix/victim child went to buy something from a 

shop, which was at a distance of about 50 yards from her house.  She further stated that 

when the prosecutrix did not return back, she started looking for her within 10 minutes 


 SC No. 08/2013                             State Vs. Bhupender                         Page Nos. 3 of 31
                                                         4

from the time, she had left and while searching for her daughter, when she reached near 

Mandir in front of her house, she  heard voice of her crying. She further stated that she 

was not able to see the prosecutrix with her eyes, so she started calling out her name 

loudly and that as she increased volume of her voice, the noise of her daughter's crying 

also increased. She further stated that she went inside the temple following the direction, 

from which, the noise of crying was coming and that as she could not see prosecutrix in 

the main temple complex, so she went searching for her in Parikarama region, behind 

the place, where idol of God was kept and as she was about to enter the said place, 

prosecutrix came out running to her   and caught hold of her, while crying bitterly. The  

PW­9   deposed  that  at  that  time,  her   underwear   was   pulled  down.     She   further  

stated that she saw the accused coming out of the other door of Parikarama and  

apprehended him there itself and that at that time, child P pointed towards her  

private parts and the accused and uttered words, "Mummy uncle su­su"  The PW­9 

also   stated   that   thereafter,   she   pulled   the   boy   in   front   of   her   house,   called   for   her 

husband and informed him about the incident and that she also checked the private 

parts of her daughter and saw that they were red and   that her husband, in turn, gave a 

call at 100 number.   She proved her complaint as Ex. PW­9/A.   She also proved her 

signatures   on   the   MLC,   Ex.   PW­2/A,   of   child   P   and   the   arrest   memo,   Ex.   PX­1   of 

accused.   She   further stated  that  she   had  handed   over copy of  her daughter's birth 

certificate Ex. PW­1/B to the IO and had further handed over the clothes of her daughter 

to the IO.   She identified the white and red frock and pajami, which child P was wearing 

at the time of incident, as Ex. PW­9/P­1 and P­2 respectively.   She also identified the 

accused.   During her further examination, PW­9 stated that when she found her  

daughter and made inquiry from her, she also told her that accused had pulled  


 SC No. 08/2013                               State Vs. Bhupender                            Page Nos. 4 of 31
                                                     5

her hair and made a sign of cutting of neck and had pressed her mouth with his  

hand.  
            During her cross­examination, PW­9 stated that there was a gali adjacent to 

Mandir on one side and park on the other and that there were other houses situated 

adjacent to their house.  She termed it correct that there was generally a Pujari available 

in the Mandir and that he had two sons, who were also staying in the temple.  She also 

termed it correct that the Pujari was quite aged and did not go out of his room.   She 

volunteered to state that Puraji remained in his room in temple as he was not keeping 

well.     It is also brought out from the cross­examination of PW­9 that there was one 

Angan wari for small children in the temple itself and that there were two teachers in the 

said Angan wari. She volunteered to state that on the day of incident, the teachers were 

not available and had gone to other Angan Wari.   In response to specific question, the 

PW­9 denied that on the day of incident, there were other men also present in the temple 

or that she had apprehended the accused by mistake. 

7.          The   PW­12   Sh.   Vijay   Goel   is   the   father   of   the   victim   child   and   he   had 

informed the police about the incident on being told about it by PW­9. He deposed on 

the lines of PW­9 regarding the post incident investigations.  He proved his signatures on 

the arrest and personal search memos of the accused i.e. Ex. PX­1 and PX­2.  He also 

proved his signatures on the seizure memo of the clothes of the prosecutrix, which she 

was wearing at the time of incident and proved the same as Ex. PW­12/A.  He identified 

the accused as well as clothes of child P. 
            During his cross­examination, PW­12 deposed that at the time of incident, 

Pujari was not present in the temple and that his sons had also gone for their respective 


 SC No. 08/2013                           State Vs. Bhupender                           Page Nos. 5 of 31
                                                    6

jobs and were not present in the temple.  He further stated that there was no one in the 

temple at that time.  The PW­12 further admitted that there was an Angan Wari office in 

the temple, however, he stated that on the day of incident, it was a holiday for Angan 

wari   employees   and   hence,   the   said   room   was   locked.       From   the   further   cross­

examination of PW­12, it is brought out that children from   the neighbourhood used to 

play in the premises of the temple and that the temple was open to the general public 

and anyone could go in temple any time of the day for darshan.   The PW­12 however, 

denied that on the day of incident, other persons were also present in the temple or that 

he had apprehended the accused by mistake.   As regards the age of his daughter, the 

PW­12 stated that at the time of incident, child P was aged about two years and that she 

used   to   speak   words   like   "roti,   papa,   mumma   etc.       During   his   subsequent   cross­

examination, PW­12 also stated that child P used to observe things and then spoke after 

observing them.  The PW­12 denied that the accused had been falsely implicated in the 

case as he used to work at Arun Chawla Tent House, which was near to the house of 

PW­12. 

8.           The   PW­3,   Dr.   Rahul,   was   deputed   in   place   of   Dr.   Kazim,   who   had 

conducted general medical examination of the prosecutrix, vide MLC Ex. PW­2/A and 

had referred her to gynecology department for further examination and management. 

He identified the handwriting and signatures of Dr. Kazim on the MLC of the child P. 



9.           The PW­2 Dr. Latika was working as S.R. Gynae, at BJRM Hospital and was 

deputed in place of Dr. Poonam, then S.R. Gynae, who had conducted gynecological 

examination of the victim child P.   She identified handwriting and signatures of Dr.  


 SC No. 08/2013                           State Vs. Bhupender                        Page Nos. 6 of 31
                                                    7

Poonam on the MLC Ex. PW­2/A and deposed that as per observation made by Dr.  

Poonam on the MLC Ex. PW­2/A, a  vulval swelling was noted with local redness  

and that   the hymen was found intact without   tear and that there was a slight  

yellowish white discharge also seen.
             During her cross­examination, PW­2 termed it correct that the child P had 

neither been examined in her presence, nor was her case discussed by Dr. Poonam with 

her.  She also stated that it was possible that discharge observed in patient due to  

lack of personal hygiene.  She volunteered to state that such a discharge was not  

seen   in   a   two   year   old   child,   unless   there   was   some   infection   or   handling   of  

genitals. 

10.          The PW­7 Dr. Deepak Chugh was working as CMO in BJRM Hospital and he 

was deputed to depose in place of Dr. Shabir and Dr. Yogesh Tekwani.  Dr. Shabir had 

initially examined the accused Bhupender Singh, under the supervision of then CMO Dr. 

Yogesh Tekwani, vide MLC Ex. PX­4 and thereafter the accused was referred to Dr. 

Narender Kumar, S.R. Surgery and the PW­7 identified handwriting and signatures of Dr. 

Shabir and signatures of Dr. Yogesh Tekwani on the MLC Ex. PX­4.  He further deposed 

that after examination of accused, Dr. Narender Kumar opined that "there is nothing to 

suggest that he (accused) cannot perform such sexual act"



11.          The PW­13 Dr. Narender Kumar deposed that  on 03.09.2012, at 7.30 pm, 

patient/accused Bhupender was examined by him and after examination, he gave his 

opinion regarding the capability of accused to perform the sexual act. 




 SC No. 08/2013                           State Vs. Bhupender                        Page Nos. 7 of 31
                                                     8
12.           The PW­5 ASI Santosh  was posted as Duty Officer at P.S. Jahangir Puri on 

03.09.2012 and she  deposed about registration of FIR of the present case on receipt of 

rukka   from   W/SI   Vineeta.     She   proved   the   endorsement   made   by   him   on   rukka   as 

Ex.PW­5/B and the computer generated copy of FIR as Ex.PW­5/A.



13.           The PW­14,   IO W/SI Vinita Prasad is the investigating officer of the case 

and she deposed that on 03.09.2012, on receipt of  information about an attempt to rape 

from duty officer, she reached at PS Jahangir Puri,  where SI Mahender Singh narrated 

the facts of the cases to her and produced victim child, aged about 2 ½ years and her 

MLC   Ex.PW­2/A, before her.   The PW­14 further deposed that thereafter, she   made 

inquiries   from     PW­9   Smt.   Usha   Goel,   mother   of  the   victim  child   and     recorded   her 

statement Ex.PW­9/A and that on  the basis of the said statement,  she prepared rukka 

Ex. PW­5/B,     made her endorsement thereupon and   presented it   before PW­5 ASI 

Santosh­ duty officer for registration of case FIR.     The PW­14 further stated that one 

boy, who was also present in the PS, was produced before her by PW­11 Ct. Ashok, 

about  whom  the   PW­9/complainant  told   her that  he   was  the   same   person,  who   had 

attempted to commit rape upon her daughter and thereafter, she  interrogated the said 

boy, whose name was revealed as Bhupender s/o Late Sh. Chander Pal and arrested 

him vide  arrest memo  Ex.PX­1 and his personal search was  conducted vide  personal 

search memo  Ex.PX­2.  
              The PW­14 further stated that thereafter she along with PW­11 Ct. Ashok, 

PW­9/complainant and PW­10 victim child went to the spot,   where she  prepared site 

plan Ex.PW­14/A at the instance of PW­9 Smt. Usha Goel and that she also came   to 

know that at the time of incident, the victim child was wearing a frock and paijami and 


 SC No. 08/2013                            State Vs. Bhupender                         Page Nos. 8 of 31
                                                   9

that the same was produced by PW­9 Smt. Usha Goel and were taken into possession 

by her (PW­14), after  preparing their pullanda and sealing it with the seal of 'VP', vide 

seizure memo Ex.PW­12/A.  The PW­14 further stated that she  also collected the birth 

certificate Ex. PW­14/B of the victim child and in the said birth certificate, the  name of 

the victim child was mentioned as 'Ujjawal' and after clarification, she  also recorded the 

statement   Ex.   PW­14/C   of   PW­12   Sh.   Vijay   Goel,   father   of   the   victim   child,   on 

03.09.2012.  The PW­14 W/SI Vinita Prasad further stated that thereafter, the accused 

was got medically examined through PW­11 Ct. Ashok Kumar   at   BJRM Hospital and 

after medical examination, PW­11  returned to PS and handed over the MLC Ex. PX­4 of 

accused and the sealed exhibits and sample seal to her and she   took the same in 

possession vide seizure memo  Ex.PW­11/A.   The PW­14 further stated that thereafter 

she deposited the exhibits of the case in Malkhana.
                The PW­14 W/SI Vinita Prasad then stated that on  04.09.2012, she  took 

the accused to BJRM Hospital and got him medically examined and that she  sent the 

exhibits to FSL through PW­4 Ct. Deepak and that initially the same were rejected by the 

FSL but on 19.10.2012, they were accepted at FSL for analysis.  The PW­14 also proved 

the   FSL results as Ex.PW­14/D and Ex.PW­14/E, respectively.   She further deposed 

that on inquiry from the neighbourhood, she came to know that the accused was not a 

good charactered person and that after completion of investigations, she prepared the 

charge   sheet  and   filed   the   same   in   the   Court  through   SHO  concerned.  The   witness 

correctly identified the accused Bhupender in the court. 

                During   her   cross­examination,   PW­14   stated   that   the   arrest   memo   of 

accused was signed by complainant and Ct. Ashok and that when she reached at the 

spot along with the PW­9/complainant and PW­10/victim child, many public persons from 


 SC No. 08/2013                           State Vs. Bhupender                      Page Nos. 9 of 31
                                                         10

the neighbourhood had gathered at the spot and that she  asked public persons to join 

investigation, but none agreed as they were not the eye witnesses to the incident and 

that she had completed the paper work at the spot.    The witness termed it  correct  

that the place of incident was a temple and further stated that there was no pujari  

in the temple, when the incident took place and that no one was present inside the  

temple   at   the   time   of   incident   as   it   was   noon   time.     During   her   further   cross­

examination, the PW­14 stated that only the site plan was prepared in the vicinity of the 

place of incident and that she did not obtain signatures of anyone on the site plan and 

prepared the remaining documents at the house of the complainant.  



14.            The PW­6, HC Satender Kaur, joined the investigating of the present case 

on 03.09.2012 and got  the medical examination of the victim child  conducted at BJRM 

Hospital vide MLC no. 46573, as per the directions of SI Mahender Singh and deposed 

regarding the same.   She further stated that as the prosecutrix was about 2 or 2­1/2 

years   old,   PW­9   Usha,   mother   of   the   victim   child   refused   for   internal   medical 

examination of the child and that  after the medical examination of the prosecutrix,  she 

along with victim child and her mother returned to the PS and handed over her MLC to 

SI Mahender Singh. 

15.            The PW­11 Ct. Ashok Kumar, joined the investigating of the present case on 

03.09.2012 and on the directions of SI Mahender Singh, he kept accused Bhupender 

Singh   in   his   safe   custody.     He   further   stated   that   after   registration   of   the   case,   the 

investigation was handed over to PW­14 SI Vinita Prasad, who arrested the accused 

vide arrest memo Ex. PX­1 and personally searched him vide memo Ex. PX­2 and that 


 SC No. 08/2013                               State Vs. Bhupender                           Page Nos. 10 of 31
                                                   11

thereafter he got  the medical examination of the accused conducted at BJRM Hospital 

and deposed regarding the same.   He further stated that after the medical examination 

of the accused, concerned doctor had handed over three sealed pullandas  to him, which 

were   handed   over   by   him   to   PW­14,   who   seized   the   same   vide   seizure   memo   Ex. 

PW­11/A. 

16.          The PW­4 Ct. Deepak  took the exhibits of the present case to FSL, Rohini, 

vide RC no. 132/21/12 and deposited the same there and on return, he handed over the 

acknowledgment receipt to MHCM and deposed regarding the same. 



17           The PW­8 HC Jai Pal was working as MHCM at PS Jahangir Puri and he 

deposed that on 03.09.2012, PW­14 W/SI Vinita Prasad deposited sealed pullandas, 

along with sample seal, with him, for which, he made entry in register no. 19 at serial no. 

3432, copy of the said entry is proved as Ex. PW­8/A.     He further deposed that on 

17.10.2012, he sent exhibits of the present case and two sample seals to FSL, Rohini 

through PW­4 Ct. Deepak vide RC no. 132/21/12 and he made entry in register no. 19 to 

this effect and that on return, PW­4 handed over copy of RC and   receipt of FSL and 

proved copies thereof as Ex. PW­8/B and Ex. PW­8/C respectively. 



18.          After closing of prosecution evidence, statement of accused Bhupender  was 

recorded   u/s  313   Cr.P.C.     Accused  stated   that  he   is  innocent   and   had   been   falsely 

implicated in this case by the parents of the   prosecutrix merely on suspicion, due to 

confusion   and that he had nothing to do with the offence of the present case.   The 

accused declined to lead evidence in his defence. 

 SC No. 08/2013                           State Vs. Bhupender                      Page Nos. 11 of 31
                                                      12
19.           Arguments   have   been   addressed   by   learned   Amicus   Curie   Sh.   Ankur 

Sharma for the accused as well as learned Additional PP for the State.

 

20.           Learned Additional PP has contended that victim child and other material 

witnesses i.e. PW­9 Smt. Usha Goel and PW­12 Vijay Goel a have  fully supported the 

case of the prosecution and that prosecution has succeeded in proving its case against 

the accused beyond reasonable doubt by examining the said witnesses.  It is stated that 

in   view   of   the   testimony   of   the   prosecutrix,   no   other   evidence   is   required   and   has 

accordingly prayed that accused Bhupender   be convicted for the offences punishable 

u/s. 376/511 IPC.

21.           On the other hand, learned counsel for accused has contended that accused 

is innocent and has nothing to do with offence committed upon the   prosecutrix in the 

present case.  It is also stated that the prosecutrix was tutored by her mother and she 

deposed under the influence of her mother and   thus accused  is entitled to be acquitted 

of all charges in the present case and it is prayed accordingly.  



22.           I have heard the arguments put forward by ld. Addl. PP and learned Amicus 

Curie   for the accused and have carefully gone through the record of the case. I have 

also carefully considered   the evidence adduced by the prosecution in support of its 

case.

23.           In the present case the accused is alleged to have attempted to commit rape 

upon a small child aged about two and half  years.  As far as the presence of accused 


 SC No. 08/2013                             State Vs. Bhupender                         Page Nos. 12 of 31
                                                      13

and the victim child, in the Parikarama region of the temple, at the time of incident, is 

concerned the same stands proved by the prosecution from the testimony of PW­9 Smt. 

Usha Goel,   mother of the victim child.   The manner in which complainant perceived 

presence  of accused   with  the  victim child   and  leveled   allegations  of attempt  to  rape 

against him is the moot question in the instant case.  In order to prove that accused had 

attempted to rape the minor child the prosecution is relying upon the testimony of victim 

child/PW­10, PW­9 Smt. Usha Goel as well as FSL Result. 

24.           Perusal of the case file reveals that in the present case, the statement of the 

victim child was neither recorded by the IO, nor was she produced before ld. M.M for her 

statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C and IO filed a charge sheet mentioning that the child was 

unable   to   speak   fluently   and   that   she   spoke   only   before   her   parents.       However, 

considering that the victim child was a material witness, she was examined as a witness 

by the court. Prior to recording of testimony of victim child P, pre­testimony visits were 

directed to be conducted in terms of guidelines issued by Hon'ble High Court (circulated 

vide communication no. 55992­56000/Rules/ DHC/2012)   to ensure that the child was 

familiar with the surroundings with the court and was comfortable while deposing about 

her   traumatic   experience.         During   the   pre­testimony  visits  of   victim   child   P,   it  was 

observed   that   the   prosecutrix   child   continued   to   remain   uncomfortable   in   court 

environment specially in a closed room and started crying.   She was not ready to leave 

her mother and did not want to respond to any questions.  On one occasion, the venue 

for recording the testimony of the prosecutrix was fixed in the office of ld. Secretary, 

DLSA, which had informal sitting arrangement, without a dias as well as single visibility 

mirror,  but still the child was uncomfortable.  Accordingly, considering  that the child was 


 SC No. 08/2013                             State Vs. Bhupender                         Page Nos. 13 of 31
                                                     14

apprehensive and scared of closed room, as also the tender age of the child, a make 

shift arrangement was  made in the Court room  and the  chairs in the Court room were 

rearranged in a manner so that there was sufficient open space inside the room where a 

mat was placed on the floor. At that time, there was  no other person in the Court room 

except the undersigned, learned Prosecutor, learned Amicus Curie, and the Court Steno 

Jayanti and the accused was made to sit  in custody, in corridor, outside the Court room. 

Thereafter, the  child and her parents were called in the court room, but the child  started 

crying looking at the formal uniform which everyone was wearing.   Thereafter, learned 

Amicus Curie for accused as well as learned Additional PP were requested to remove 

their   coats   so   that   the   child   felf     that   she   was   amongst   normal   people   and   the 

undersigned has also removed her coat and joined the family of the prosecutrix in the 

Court   room.  Thereafter,   child   was  allowed   to   move   around   and   after  sometime,   she 

started playing comfortably with her parents and Ms.  Vandana Chauhan, Advocate from 

DCWA, who was permitted to remain present with the child as support person.  Although 

the   proceedings   were   being   conducted   in   camera,   considering   that   the   child   started 

crying as soon as the door of the room was closed, one of the doors had been left open 

but the corridor outside the Court room was got vacated and    thereafter   testimony of 

child P,   was recorded.   She was asked certain preliminary questions to ascertain her 

capacity   and   capability   to   understand   questions   and   answer   them.     After   being   so 

satisfied her testimony, was also recorded in question and answer form.   In order to 

appreciate the clarity with which the witness could answer the general questions  as well 

as those relating to incident, the entire proceedings, in which, deposition of PW­10 was 

recorded is reproduced hereunder in verbatim.

             bag brought by her parents one by one.  She has taken out one packet  

             of biscuit and calls it bicuit, then she has picked up a packet of chips  

             and states it 'O Yes' (the name written on the packet of chips as 'O  

             Yes').  She has then taken out one cap of pink colour and a box.  She  

             has made her father open the box which contains sweets.  She calls it  


 SC No. 08/2013                     State Vs. Bhupender                Page Nos. 15 of 31
                                                     16

                burfi.  Now she is eating one of the pieces of said sweet.  After taking  

                few bites  of sweet, she has now taken out some toffees.  She has now  

                emptied  the bag.   


              After   being   satisfied   that   the   witness   was   capable   of   understanding  

questions   and   answering   them   reasonably,   considering   her   age,   her   testimony   was  

recorded in question answer form as under.  However, considering her tender age she  

was   not     administered   oath.     The   statement   of   witness   was   recorded   further   to   her  

statement recorded, which is reproduced as under :­



              Q.               Aap Mandir me gaye the ?
              Ans.             The witness has nodded her head and said 'dusre mandir  

              me'.
            word 'uttar di thi'.) (now she is pointing towards her private parts with  

            her left hand and states 'susu me hath lagaya tha').

                             At   this   stage,   Lady   Constable   Sheela   Devi   from   PS  

            Jahangir   Puri,   who   is   in   civil   clothes,   has   been   asked   to   bring   the  

            accused with her.  The accused is now sitting in the last row of chairs in  

            the Court with the lady Constable.  

            looking around, she has started staring at the accused.   Now she has  

            lifted her hand and pointed towards accused and said 'ladka'.



25.           During   cross­examination   by   ld.   Amicus   Curie,   the   victim   child  

deposed as under :­




 SC No. 08/2013                           State Vs. Bhupender                         Page Nos. 17 of 31
                                                18

            Q.             Prachi aaj kiske sath aaye ho Court me ?
            crayons were annexed with her deposition  as Ex.PX (colly).



26.        The   testimony   of   the   victim   P,   which   has   been   reproduced   in   detail 

hereinabove, leaves no doubt regarding the identity of the accused or the fact that he 

had attempted to commit rape upon the victim child in a temple parikarama, which is a 

sacred yet secluded place, where ordinarily people would not go.   It is note worthy that 

the testimony of victim P is corroborated on material points by that of her mother, who 

had gone to the temple while looking for prosecutrix and had reached Parikarama area 

on hearing the cries of  child P and when, she went there, the prosecutrix came running 

to her and caught hold of her and at that time she was crying  bitterly and her underwear 

was pulled down to her legs.  The PW­9 has also deposed that at the same time, she 

saw one boy i.e. accused, coming out of the other door of the Parikarama region and on 

being asked by her, the prosecutrix/victim child pointed towards the her private parts and 

the accused and uttered words "Mummy uncle shu shu". She has also stated that on 

inquiry, victim child had told to her that accused had pulled her hair and made sign of 

cutting of neck and had pressed her mouth with her hand. 

27.        It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of a child 


 SC No. 08/2013                       State Vs. Bhupender                     Page Nos. 18 of 31
                                                     19

witness is permissible if such witness is found competent to testify and the court, after 

careful   scrutiny   of   its   evidence,   In   case   of  Dattu   Ramrao   Sakhare   Vs.   State   of  

Maharashtra (1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that,

                "  A  child   witness  if  found   competent  to   depose   to   the   facts  and 

                reliable   one   such   evidence   could   be   the   basis  of   conviction.     In 

                other words even in the absence of oath the evidence of a child 

                witness can be considered under Section 118 of the Evidence Act 

                provided that such witness is able to understand the questions and 

                able   to   give   rational   answers   thereof.     The   evidence   of   a   child 

                witness   and   credibility   thereof   would   depend   upon   the 

                circumstances of each case.   The only precaution which the court 

                should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness 

                is that the witness must be a reliable one and his / her demeanor 

                must be like any other competent witness and there is no likelihood 

                of being tutored."

28.        In case of Pancchi Vs. State of U.P., AIR 1998 SC 2726, it was further  held :­

               "It is not the law that if a witness is a child his evidence shall be 

               rejected, even if it is found reliable.   The law is that evidence if a 

               child   witness   must   be   evaluated  more   carefully  and   with  greater 

               circumspection   because   a   child   is   susceptible   to   be   swayed   by 

               what   others   tell   them   and   this   a   child   witness   is   easy   prey   to 

               tutoring." 

 SC No. 08/2013                            State Vs. Bhupender                          Page Nos. 19 of 31
                                                    20
29.           As already observed hereinabove, the victim child P despite her tender age 

not only identified accused, but also explained his acts through gestures and her limited 

vocabulary   and   knowledge.     The   medical   evidence   on   record   also   corroborates   the 

testimony   of   the   victim   child   P.     Even   though,   Dr.   Poonam,   who   had   examined   the 

prosecutrix could not be summoned to depose as she had already left the services of the 

hospital, Dr. Latika, who was deputed in her place, proved the observations given by Dr. 

Poonam on the MLC Ex. PW­2/A of the victim, wherein Dr. Poonam had observed that " 

there was a   vulval swelling   with local redness and that   the hymen was found intact 

without  tear and that there was a slight yellowish white discharge." 



30.           Ld.   Counsel   for   the   accused   has   pointed   out   that   during   her   cross­

examination, Dr. Lalika has stated that it is possible that the discharge observed in the 

patient could be due to lack of hygiene and hence, it does not stand proved from the 

MLC of the child P that she was subjected to an attempt to commit rape.  In this regard, 

it is seen that the observations in the MLC are corroborated by the testimony of victim 

child P and the FSL reports   Ex. PW­14/D and Ex. PW­14/E placed on record by the 

prosecution, wherein, it is mentioned that the alleles from the source of exhibit '3' (blood 

sample of accused) are accounted in the alleles from the source of exhibits 1a (frock) 

and 1b (Pyjami) and the DNA   profiling (STR analysis) performed on the exhibits   '1a­

frock', '1b­Pyajami' and 3 (blood sample of accused) provided was sufficient to conclude 

that the DNA Profile from the source of exhibit 3 (blood sample of  accused) was similar 

with the biological stains i.e. Seminal stains present on the source of exhibits '1a' (frock) 

and '1b' (Pyajami).

 SC No. 08/2013                            State Vs. Bhupender                      Page Nos. 20 of 31
                                                     21
31.           Ld. Counsel for the accused has contended that there are contradiction in 

the testimonies of the witnesses, more particularly in testimony of PW­9 Smt. Usha Goel 

and PW­12 Vijay Goel, regarding the presence of Pujari and teachers of Angan Wari, 

situated in the temple.   The said contradictions pointed out by the learned Amicus Curie 

are of minor nature and are not sufficient to discard the cogent and convincing testimony 

of child P, who was examined as PW­10. 

32.           Ld. Counsel for the accused has also contended that there is contradiction in 

the testimony of PW­4 Ct. Deepak Kumar and PW­8 HC Jaipal on one hand and the 

testimony   of   PW­14   W/SI   Vinita,   IO   regarding   the   date   on   which,   the   exhibits   were 

deposited with FSL and that there is a delay in sending the exhibits to FSL and thus,the 

question of tampering with the case property cannot be ruled out.   Again, in light of 

cogent   and   convincing   testimony   of   the   victim   child,   these   discrepancies   pale   into 

oblivion.  Even otherwise, in case of Karnel Singh Vs. State of MP (1995) 5 SCC 518 

conviction of accused U/S 376 IPC was challenged before Hon'ble Supreme Court and 

one of the grounds of challenge was defective investigations.   It was held in that case 

that in cases of defective investigation the court has to be circumspect in evaluating the 

evidence but it would not be right in acquitting an accused person solely on account of 

the  defect;  to  do  so  would  tantamount  to  playing   into  the   hands  of the  Investigating 

Officer if the investigation is designedly defective.  
              Moreover, the purpose of MLC and the FSL reports is to corroborate the 

testimony of the victim child.  In the present case, the testimony of victim child P by itself 

is sufficient to establish guilt of the accused. 

 SC No. 08/2013                            State Vs. Bhupender                       Page Nos. 21 of 31
                                                   22
33.         Learned   Amicus   Curie   for   accused   has   also   contended   that   testimony   of 

prosecutrix/minor child cannot be relied upon as children are prone to be tutored and in 

the present case also from testimony of prosecutrix it is evident that she was tutored.



34.         In this regard it has been held by Hon'ble Supreme Court in case titled as 

State of UP Vs. Krishan Master, AIR 2010 SC 3071, that :­

              "There is no principle of law that it is inconceivable that a child of 

              tender   age   would   not   be   able   to   recapitulate   the   facts   in   his 

              memory.   A Child  is always receptive  to   abnormal  events  which 

              take place in his life and would never forget those events for the 

              rest of his life.  The child may be able to recapitulate carefully and 

              exactly when asked about the same in the future.  In case the child 

              explains the relevant events of the crime without improvements or 

              embellishments, and the same inspire confidence of the Court, his 

              deposition   does   not   require   any   corroboration   whatsoever.     The 

              child at a tender age is incapable of having any malice or ill will 

              against any person.  Therefore, there must be something on record 

              to satisfy the Court that something had gone wrong between the 

              date of incident and recording evidence of the child witness due to 

              which the witness wanted to implicate the accused falsely in a case 

              of a serious nature."

35.         In   the   present   case,   not   only   does   the   testimony   of   victim   child/PW­10 

inspires confidence, but even otherwise,   her testimony is duly corroborated by that of 


 SC No. 08/2013                          State Vs. Bhupender                        Page Nos. 22 of 31
                                                   23

PW­9 Smt. Usha Goel and the  medical evidence as well as FSL result  on record.  I find 

no reason as to why a child of such tender age,  would implicate an innocent person  for 

an   offence   which   was   undisputedly   committed   with   her.   It   would   be   worthwhile   to 

remember that the victim child in the present case was a very vulnerable victim because 

of her tender age (she is aged 2­1/2 years old) and no  plausible justification has come 

forth from accused, why a child of such a small age  would nurture an enmity or grudge 

or ill will against him.     The testimony of victim child   clearly bring out the traumatic 

experience she suffered at the hands of the accused.  The fact that the incident has left 

a long term impact on the victim child P is clearly evident from the fact that till date, the 

child P is afraid of being in a closed room. 

36.          In case of  State of Punjab Vs. Gurmit Singh & Ors. AIR 1996 SC 1393, 

the   Supreme   Court   held   that   in   cases   involving   sexual   offences,   harassment, 

molestation etc. the court is duty bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. 

It was held that:
37.          Thus,  from   the   testimony   of   the   victim   child   P   alone,   which   is   duly 

corroborated by that of her mother PW­9 Smt. Usha, her MLC Ex. PW­2/A and FSL 

result Ex. PW­14/B, the prosecution has succeeded in proving that it was the accused 

and only accused Bhupender, who attempted to commit rape upon a minor child aged 

about   2­1/2   years   old   on   03.09.2012   at   about   11.10   am,   in   parikarama   area/space 

behind idols at  Lal Mandir, EE Block, in the gali, Jahangir Puri, Delhi and I, accordingly 

convict accused Bhupender Singh u/s 376/511 IPC and he is sentenced accordingly. 

 

             Convict produced from J.C with counsel Sh. Ankuar Sharma. 


ORDER ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE

             In  the present case, the convict - Bhupender  has  been convicted u/s­ 

376/511 IPC. 
             I  have  heard  the  arguments  on  the  point of sentence put forward by 

Ld. Addl. PP  for State and Ld. Amicus Curie for the convict.



2.           It has been submitted by the Ld.   Addl. PP   that in the present case, 

convict attempted to rape a minor child aged about two and half years  and  in view 

 SC No. 08/2013                          State Vs. Bhupender         Page Nos. 25 of 31
                                                   26

of the serious  nature  of offence, the convict does not deserve any leniency and she 

prays that maximum sentence   prescribed by the law may be imposed upon the 

convict. 

3.           On the other hand, it has been submitted by the  Ld. Amicue curie  that 

the convict­Bhupender   is of young age and is unmarried and is having   old aged 

mother to support and that   he is the sole bread earner of the family. It is further 

submitted that convict is having clean antecedents and  belongs to a low strata of 

society and is first time offender  and he remained in  custody for a period of about 

more than one year  and he prays that a lenient view may be  taken  in this case and 

he be given a chance of  rehabilitation. 

4.           I have carefully considered the submissions made by Ld.  Addl. PP  and 

Ld. defence counsel and have carefully gone through the record of the case. 



5.           In  the present case,  the convict­ Bhupender   has been convicted   for 

committing the  offence punishable u/s- 376/511.   The convict had attempted to 

commit rape upon a minor girl child aged about only two and half years old. The 

offence   was   committed   by   the   convict   in   broad   day   light   at   a   very   sacred   yet 

secluded place i.e. Parikarama area behind the place, where the Idol were kept in a 

Temple.   It is brought out from the record, that the minor victim child had gone 

from her house to a shop in vicinity of her house to buy something for herself and at 


 SC No. 08/2013                           State Vs. Bhupender                      Page Nos. 26 of 31
                                                    27

that time, she was picked up by the convict and carried to Parikarama Area in the 

temple. Had it not been for the vigilant mother of the victim child, who went in 

search for her within 10 minutes of her leaving the house to buy something for 

herself,  the convict could have succeeded in ravishing the minor child to satisfy his 

lust.     The   act   of   convict,   is   not   only   gruesome,   but   has   had   far   fetched   and 

irreparable consequences on the psychology of the victim child, who till date is 

afraid of being in  a closed room.   The instances of minor girls being victim to such 

nefarious acts and deeds   are on rise and thus, no leniency is called for   in the 

matter.   I hereby sentence convict Bhupender  to undergo rigorous imprisonment of 

5 (five)  years for having committed offences punishable u/s 376/511 IPC. I further 

impose a fine   of Rs. 5,000/­ on convict, in default of payment of fine to further 

undergo   simple   imprisonment   for   three   month,   for   the   offence   punishable,   u/s 

376/511 IPC. 
             Benefit u/s 428 Cr.PC be also  given to the convict.

6.                  Coming now to the aspect of compensation to the victim, who is a 

minor   girl,   the   Hon'ble   Apex   Court   has   time   and   again   observed   that   that 

subordinate Courts trying   the  offences of sexual assault  have the jurisdiction to 

award the compensation to the victims being an offence against the basic human 

right and violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India.   In a case titled as 

Bodhisattwa Gautam vs. Subhra Chakraborty, AIR 1996 SC 922, it has been held 

by Hon'ble Supreme Court that the jurisdiction to pay compensation (interim and 


 SC No. 08/2013                           State Vs. Bhupender                       Page Nos. 27 of 31
                                                  28

final) has to be treated to be a part of the over all jurisdiction of the Courts trying 

the offences of rape, which is an offence against basic human rights as also the 

Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty and Life. 

7.            Even otherwise, the concept of welfare and well being of children is 

basic for any civilized society and this has a direct bearing on the state of health and 

well being of the entire community, its growth and development.  It has been time 

and again emphasized in various legislations, international declarations as well as 

the judicial pronouncements that the Children are a "supremely important national 

asset" and the future well being of the nation depends on how its children grow and 

develop.  In this regard reference is made to the following observations of Hon'ble 

Supreme Court in case of Laxmi Kant Pandey Vs. Union of India (1984) 2 SCC,  

244, that :
8.           Therefore, in order to provide Restorative and Compensatory Justice to 

the victim i.e prosecutrix, I hereby direct the GNCT of Delhi through Principal 

Secretary (Home) to grant compensation to the tune of Rs. 1,00,000/­ (Rs. One lac 

only)   to   the   victim   child.   The   said   amount   shall   be   used   for   her   welfare   and 

rehabilitation,   under   the   supervision   of   Welfare   Officer,   so   nominated   by   the 

Government of NCT of Delhi. 

9.           A copy of this order be sent to the Principal Secretary (Home), GNCT of 

Delhi,   Chief   Secretary,   GNCT   of   Delhi,   Principal   Secretary   (Social   Welfare), 

GNCT of Delhi and Director, Department of Social Welfare (Women and Child 

Development),   GNCT   of   Delhi,   for   information   and   necessary   action   under 

intimation to this Court. 

10.          The convict is informed that he has a right to prefer an appeal against 


 SC No. 08/2013                           State Vs. Bhupender                      Page Nos. 30 of 31
                                                 31

this judgment.   He has been apprised that he cannot afford to engage an advocate, 

he can approach the Legal Aid Cell, functioning in Tihar Jail or write to Secretary, 

Delhi High Court, Legal Services Committee, 34­37, Lawyer Chamber Block, High 

Court of Delhi, New Delhi. 
             Copies of  the judgment and order on the  point of sentence be supplied 

to the convict, free of cost.
             File be consigned to the record room.

