1.            Case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   on   13.11.2011,   Ram   Kumar,father   of   the 

prosecutrix came to Police Station Mahendra Park and gave his statement to ASI Vir Pal 

Singh,  wherein he stated that he along with his family members used to reside at A­409, 

Jahangir   Puri,   Delhi   and   that   on   10.11.2011,   at   about   11.00   am,   his   daughter   i.e. 

prosecutrix P, aged about 13 years, went to a shop to bring some articles, but did not 

return and despite search by him, no clue was found about his daughter.  He expressed 


 SC No. 37/12                          State Vs. Satender Chauhan                      Page Nos. 1 of 40
                                                    2

suspicion   that   some   unknown   person   had   taken   his   daughter   after   alluring   her   and 

prayed that his daughter be searched for  and proper action be taken.  On the basis of 

this complaint, case FIR No. 259/11 u/s. 363 IPC was registered at P.S. Mahendra Park 

and investigations of the present case was marked to PW­9 ASI Veer Pal Singh. 



2.           During the course of investigations, prosecutrix, who herself came   to her 

house, was produced by complainant before PW­9 ASI Veer Pal Singh and she was got 

medically   examined.     The   statement   of   prosecutrix   was   got   recorded   u/s.164   CrPC. 

Later on, the accused was also apprehended and arrested.  The case property was sent 

to FSL.   After completion of the investigation and recording of statement of witnesses, 

the charge sheet was prepared and filed in the court for trial.  



3.           Upon committal of this case to the court of Sessions, charges for the offence 

under   Sections   363/365/366/376   IPC   were   framed   against   the   accused   Satender 

Chauhan, however, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial and thereafter, the 

case was fixed for prosecution evidence.

4.           In order to prove its case, prosecution has examined 15 witnesses :­ 



5.           The PW­2 is the prosecutrix in the present case.   Her testimony shall be 

discussed at length in the following paragraphs of the judgment.



6.           The PW­5, Sh. Ram Kumar, is the father of the prosecutrix.  He deposed that 

he, along with his wife and three children i.e. two daughters and one son, were  residing 


 SC No. 37/12                         State Vs. Satender Chauhan                    Page Nos. 2 of 40
                                                      3

at A­409, Jahangir Puri in the year 2011 and that the prosecutrix, whose date of birth is 

18.10.1998,   was     his     elder   daughter.       He   further   stated   that   on   10.11.2011,   his 

daughter/prosecutrix, aged about 13 years, went to market to purchase the household 

articles, but did not return back to home.  The PW­5 made search of child P and despite 

searching for her at  her friends' house,  he could not trace her, he went to PS Mahendra 

Park on 13.11.2011 and got recorded his statement Ex. PW­5/A.  He further stated that 

after about  seven days i.e. on 20.11.2011, his  daughter/prosecutrix made a call on his 

mobile and that the  said call was attended by his wife, who  further handed over the said 

phone to her landlady, who told the prosecutrix that PW­5  had suffered with heart­attack 

and that on  21.11.2011, prosecutrix came to his house and thereafter  prosecutrix was 

produced before the IO on 22.11.2011.   He further stated that after recording of   the 

statement of  the  prosecutrix by the  IO,    prosecutrix/his daughter was  taken   to  Babu 

Jagjeevan Ram Hospital for her medical examination and after that, she  was produced 

before   Ld.   M.M   who   sent   her   to   Nirmal   Chaya   and   that   later   on,   his   daughter   was 

produced before ld. M.M for recording of her statement and thereafter   custody of his 

daughter was  handed over to him (PW­5).     
            The PW­5 further deposed that after about 1 or 1­1/2 months, when he  was 

going to Metro Station Jahangir Puri, at about 12.00/12.30 noon, he noticed   accused 

Satender     standing   at   red   light,   near   Metro   Station,   Jahangir   Puri   and   that   he 

overpowered the accused and took him to the PS Mahendra Park and produced him 

before the IO ASI Veerpal.   He deposed that the accused   was arrested vide arrest 

memo Ex. PW­2/C and his personal search was taken   vide memo Ex. PW­2/D.   He 

further stated that thereafter, he along with ASI Veerpal and accused went to the house 

of the accused at Sarai Peepal Thala i.e. house of Rajeev and from where,  accused got 


 SC No. 37/12                           State Vs. Satender Chauhan                      Page Nos. 3 of 40
                                              4

recovered clothes of daughter of PW­5, which were worn by her at the time of going to 

the market, and that the  said clothes were kept in a pullanda, which was sealed by the 

IO.    He  further stated that her daughter/prosecutrix P also came there    with woman 

constable at the time of recovery of the said clothes.  The witness  duly identified clothes 

of P i.e.   one lady's shirt with pink and white flower design, one salwar of the same 

material and design and one chunni of dark pink colour as Ex. P­1 to P­3 and stated that 

they were the same clothes, which were recovered by the police from the room of the 

accused. 
            During cross­examination, PW­5 stated that his  marriage had taken place in 

the year 1992, but he showed his lack of knowledge about his age   at the time of his 

marriage and about the year, when his first  child was born after marriage.   However, 

the witness stated that the age difference between his children was 2­1/2 years and his 

youngest child was aged about six years.   He further stated that he   got admitted his 

daughter/prosecutrix in MCD School, when she was aged about 4­1/2 to 5 years, but he 

showed his lack of knowledge about the year of her admission.   He further stated that 

he had not submitted any document regarding the age of his  children at the time of their 

admission and had   told the same orally only.   He further stated that earlier, accused 

used to reside in the same rented accommodation, in which, he used to reside. The 

witness specifically denied that his daughter used to love the accused or that he  tried to 

make her understand, but she did not agree, so   he shifted his residence. He further 

stated that he was  having one mobile and that no other person of his family was having 

a mobile.  The witness further termed it correct that he had made prosecutrix understand 

not to talk with the accused as he was already married. 

 SC No. 37/12                     State Vs. Satender Chauhan               Page Nos. 4 of 40
                                                     5
7.          The PW­11 Smt. Sarita is the mother of the prosecutrix and she deposed 

that on 10.11.2011 at about 11:00 AM, her daughter/prosecutrix had gone to bring  some 

household articles from a nearby market, but   did not return home and when despite 

searches being made by them, she could not be traced, they all  went to P.S. for lodging 

the report but the Police asked her (PW­11) and her   husband to first search for their 

daughter  at their  own level and then to file the complaint.  She further stated that they 

kept on searching for their  daughter till 13.11.2011, but  when she could not be traced, 

they again went to the P.S.   and got recorded their complaint with   the Police against 

accused Satendra Chauhan.  
            In   reply   to   a   specific   court   question,   that   "Why   did   you   expressed   your  

suspicion on accused", the witness replied that "I had suspicion on accused as earlier  

we were residing in the same building as tenants.   Accused was residing on second  

floor and we were on the first floor of that building.  Since I used to remain unwell, I used  

to send my daughter for bringing clothes etc. from the roof.  When I observed accused  

talking to her, I shifted my residence."   
            In reply to further court questions, the witness stated that the incident had 

happened after about 4­5 months of their shifting residence and that during the said 

period of 4 - 5 months, she did not observe accused talking to her  daughter personally 

or on phone etc.  She further stated that she herself used to go to pick up and drop her 

daughter to school. 
            Further court question was asked from PW­11 that "Since you had changed 

your residence about 4 - 5 months ago and had not observed accused interacting with 

your daughter, why did you express suspicion over the accused", the witness replied that 

her daughter had told her that accused used to go to her school sometimes.  


 SC No. 37/12                         State Vs. Satender Chauhan                       Page Nos. 5 of 40
                                                     6

              The   PW­11   further   stated   that   her   daughter   was   left   at   Metro   Station 

Jahangir Puri by accused after about 12 days from the day, she went missing and they 

found her at the said Metro Station while searching for her.  The witness further stated 

that her daughter/prosecutrix told her that accused had induced her on the pretext of 

going for some outing, to which she refused and that the accused forcibly abducted her 

to Sarai Peepalthala and thereafter, the accused forcibly put vermilion in her hair (Maang 

bhar   di)   and   thereafter   established   physical   relations   with   her.   She   further   deposed 

about the medical examination of her daughter and about seizing of samples, taken from 

her daughter, vide Ex.PW­11/A and about recording of statement of her daughter u/s 

164 Cr.P.C.   She further stated that   at the time of incident, her   daughter was aged 

about 13 years and that she had  stated the age of her  daughter as was mentioned by 

her husband at the time of her admission in the school and that her husband knew the 

correct age of her daughter.  She further stated that her daughter was born in the village 

hospital, but she had not got her date of birth recorded with Panchayat, MCD, etc.    She 

further stated that the police recovered red coloured suit of her  daughter, which she was 

wearing on the day she had gone missing, from the house, where accused had kept her, 

after accused was arrested.    
                During cross­examination, PW­11 stated that she did   not remember the 

date of her  marriage and that she had three children and that the prosecutrix was her 

eldest child and that she was born after about 4 ­5 years of her  marriage.  She further 

stated that after birth of prosecutrix, she  had two abortions and then her son was born, 

who was aged about 10 years.   The witness further stated that she could not  tell how 

old she was at the time of her marriage, but she again stated that she   was 13 - 14 

years old.   The PW­11 denied that P was aged above 16 years, when she voluntarily 


 SC No. 37/12                          State Vs. Satender Chauhan                     Page Nos. 6 of 40
                                                    7

went with the accused and had sexual relations with him.  

8.           The PW­3 Sh. Rajiv, who was    owner of House no. 285­A, Sarai Peepal 

Thala, Delhi, deposed that he had given the second floor of the said house to accused 

Satendra   Chauhan   on   monthly   rent   of   Rs.     1500/­   w.e.f.     05.11.2011   and   that   the 

accused shifted to said house and stayed there for about 15/16 days, after which, he 

(accused) went away to an unknown place after locking the said house. He further stated 

that one lady had come  to his  shop and asked about the whereabouts of the accused 

and that   he had assured the said lady that whenever the accused come, he would 

inform her and that after  about one month, accused returned to the said house and on 

his (PW­3) informing that lady about this fact,  said lady came along with police officials 

to his house and accused was overpowered. He further stated that lock of the room was 

broken in  the   presence of the accused and that salwar of the prosecutrix,  one jacket of 

red colour and one kurta were recovered from the said room and were put into pullanda 

and that pullanda was sealed and was taken into possession vide memo Ex. PW­3/A. 

The said witness identified those clothes in the court as Ex. P­1 to P­3. 

              During cross­examination, the PW­3 stated that when accused had taken the 

house on rent, he had told him  that he would bring his family from his native village and 

that after two days, accused shifted to the rented accommodation along with prosecutrix 

and that both of them used to reside in rented accommodation happily. He further stated 

that he never heard any noise of quarrel between them and that accused used to go to 

his job in the morning time and used to return at about 7.00/8.00 pm. 



9.           The PW­7, Ms. Vandana, learned MM, Rohini Courts, Delhi, had recorded 


 SC No. 37/12                         State Vs. Satender Chauhan                     Page Nos. 7 of 40
                                                   8

the   statement   of   prosecutrix   u/s.164   CrPC.     She     proved   the   said   statement   as 

Ex.PW­7/B.   The applications for recording of statement u/s.164 Cr.P.C and supply of 

copy   of   said   statement,   filed   by   IO,   were   proved   as   Ex.   PW­7/A   and   Ex.PW­7/D 

respectively   while   the   certificate   given   by   PW­7   was   proved   as   Ex.PW­7/C.     The 

application, vide which the prosecutrix was sent to Children Home   was proved as Ex. 

PW­7/E. 

10.          The   PW­6,   Dr.   V.K.   Jha   was   working   as   CMO   on   22.11.2011   and   he 

deposed that  on that day, under his supervision, PW­2/prosecutrix was examined by Dr. 

Pankaj and thereafter, she/PW­2 was referred to S.R. Gynae, where Dr. Anshu Gupta. 

SR Gynae examined her gynecologically.   He  proved the MLC of the prosecutrix as Ex. 

PW­6/A and also identified the handwriting and signatures of Dr. Pankaj and Dr. Anshu 

Gupta on the same.   In reply to a specific court question, "Are there any findings qua 

sexual assault in the MLC of the prosecutrix, the witness replied in negative after going 

through the MLC Ex. PW­6/A. 

11.          The PW­10, Dr. Seema was CMO at BJRM Hospital and deposed that on 

06.02.2012, under her supervision, Dr. Shyam Madeshya had medically examined the 

accused and thereafter, he was referred to S.R. (Surgery), where Dr. Nitin medically 

examined him and opined that "it cannot be said that patient is incapable of doing sexual 

intercourse"     The PW­10   proved the MLC of the accused   as Ex. PW­10/A and also 

identified the handwriting and signatures of Dr. Shyam Madeshya and Dr. Ninin  on the 

same. 

recorded his statement  Ex. PW­5/A  and that  after making his endorsement Ex. PW­9/A 

on it, he handed it over to  PW­12 HC Surender, Duty Officer for registration of the case 

and   after   registration   of   the   case   FIR,     PW­2   handed   over   original   rukka   and 

computerized copy of FIR to him and that he   along with complainant went to area of 

P.S. Mahendra Park to trace the prosecutrix and accused, but they could not be traced. 

He further stated that on 22.11.2011, he went to Prathmik Ballika Adarsh Vidayalaya, A­

Block, Jahangir Puri, Delhi, and obtained certificate Ex. PW­1/C regarding age of the 

prosecutrix from Principal.   He further stated that at about 10:00 AM, parents of the 

prosecutrix produced the prosecutrix before him and he   prepared recovery memo Ex. 

PW­2/A of prosecutrix  and thereafter, on the instructions of SHO, he handed over the 

case file to PW­14 W/ASI Adesh Kumari for further investigations. 

              During   cross­examination,   the   witness   stated   that   the   parents   of   the 

prosecutrix remained with him  in the PS for about one hour and that he  did not obtain 

MCD birth certificate of the prosecutrix till the time investigations remained with him.



13.           The PW­14, W/ASI Aadesh Kumar is the investigating officer of the present 

case   and   she   deposed   that   on  22­11­2011,   further   investigation   of   the   case   was 

entrusted   to   her   and   that   during   the   course   of   investigation,   she   got   the   prosecutrix 

medically examined from BJRM hospital vide  MLC Ex. PW­6/A and at that time, mother 

of   the   prosecutrix/PW­11   also   accompanied   them.     She   further   deposed   that   after 

medical examination of the prosecutrix,  exhibits and sexual assault kit was given to her 

by the concerned doctor, which were seized by her vide seizure memo Ex. PW­11/A and 


 SC No. 37/12                            State Vs. Satender Chauhan                       Page Nos. 9 of 40
                                                         10

that   list   of   articles   of   the   samples   given   by   the   doctor   were   also   taken   by   her   into 

possession vide memo  Ex. PW­14/A.  She further stated that thereafter, she along with 

the prosecutrix and her parents went to the spot, where PW­2/prosecutrix pointed the 

room of the house no. 285A, 3rd floor, Sarai Peepal Thala, where she had stayed with the 

accused as husband and wife,  but the said room was found locked and that owner of 

the said house was not present there at that time and  that thereafter, prosecutrix  was 

sent to   Nirmal Chaya, Children Home by the order of the court on her application Ex. 

PW­14/B.  
               The   PW­14   ASI   Adesh   Kumar   further   stated   that   on   23­11­2011,   the 

prosecutrix was counseled by the NGO   and thereafter, her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C 

was got recorded vide her application Ex. PW­14/C and that she obtained the copy of 

the   said   statement   by   moving     her  application   Ex.   PW­14/D   and   that   thereafter,   the 

prosecutrix was again sent to  Nirmal Chaya vide  application Ex. PW­14/E.  She further 

stated that on on 6­2­2012, PW­5  Ram kumar , father of the prosecutrix produced the 

accused Satendra Chauhan   and that at that time, the prosecutrix also accompanied 

them and after interrogation, she   arrested the accused in the presence of PW­4   Ct. 

Navrang Lal vide   arrest memo Ex. PW­2/C and his   personal search was conducted 

vide personal search memo Ex. PW­2/D, and that the accused also made  his disclosure 

statement vide  Ex. PW­4/A.    She further stated that thereafter, the  accused was got 

medically examined at BJRM hospital vide  MLC Ex. PW­10/A and that she  seized the 

exhibits and blood sample of the accused along with the   sample seal of the hospital, 

vide seizure memo Ex. PW­4/B.   
               She further deposed that on 7­2­2012 the accused was taken out from the 

lock   up   by   PW­13   Ct.   Pardeep   Kumar   and   thereafter,   they   along   with   prosecutrix 


 SC No. 37/12                             State Vs. Satender Chauhan                        Page Nos. 10 of 40
                                                   11

reached at Sarai Peeple Thala, where accused pointed out a room of H. No. 285 A, 

Sarai Peeple Thala while telling  that he had stayed there along with the prosecutrix as 

husband and wife and that at the same time, the  owner of the house/PW­3  Rajeev also 

came there and   identified the accused and the prosecutrix as his tenant.   She further 

deposed   that   after   opening   the   room,   the   prosecutrix   produced   her   clothes   from   a 

suitcase lying in an open almiraha and that the said clothes were sealed by her,   in a 

cloth pullanda, with the seal of AK and was seized vide seizure memo  Ex. PW­3/A.  She 

further deposed that during the course of investigation,  she also  collected the age proof 

Ex. PW­1/A to C, of the prosecutrix, got sent the  exhibits of the present case  to FSL, 

Rohini through PW­8 HC Mukesh.   She further deposed that she   also recorded the 

statement   of   father   of   the   prosecutrix,   wherein   he   stated   that   he   had   no   other 

documentary  proof of the age of the prosecutrix except the school record as he had not 

got her date of birth registered  in the office of Registrar of Birth and Death.   She further 

stated that she also  collected the FSL result and placed the same on  the judicial record 

vide  application Ex. PW­14/F.
             During cross­examination, PW­14 stated that she had verified the date of 

birth of the prosecutrix, which was mentioned in the admission register  and the pasting 

file of the school, during investigation and  that she  was told by the Admission Incharge 

that the parents of the children of jhuggi of JJ colonies never used to get the birth of 

their children registered with the office of Registrar of Birth and Death and that  date of 

birth   given by the parents in their affidavits was the only proof available in the school 

regarding the age of the child. She further stated that she did not get the bone age 

assessment test of the prosecutrix done.   

 SC No. 37/12                         State Vs. Satender Chauhan                   Page Nos. 11 of 40
                                                     12
14.           The PW­4 Ct. Navrang had joined the investigations of the present case with 

PW­14 W/ASI Adesh Kumar on 06.02.2012, at the time of arrest  of the accused and had 

also got the accused medically examined at BJRM Hospital and   deposed about the 

same. 

15.           The PW­13 Ct. Pradeep had   joined the investigations of the present case 

with PW­14 W/ASI Adesh Kumar on 07.02.2012, when accused had pointed out the 

room, where he and  prosecutrix resided  on rent as husband and  wife, and deposed 

about the  seizure of the clothes of the prosecutrix from that room. 



16.           The PW­8, HC Mukesh, had taken the exhibits of the case to FSL Rohini, on 

directions of IO and deposed regarding the same.

17.           The PW­15 HC Chander Bhan,   was posted as MHCM at P.S. Mahendra 

Park  at the relevant time.  He produced Register No.19 and 21 and proved the relevant 

entries of deposit of samples and other articles at Malkhana and about sending them to 

FSL as Ex.PW­15/A to Ex.PW­15/E.

18.           The PW­1, Ms. Suman Bala, produced original record from MCD Primary 

School, A Block, Jahangir Puri, Delhi,   wherein victim child was admitted in first class 

and   proved   copy   of   admission   form   and   affidavit   of   Sh.   Ram   Kumar,   father   of   the 

prosecutrix,  as Ex.PW­1/A and Ex. PW­1/B respectively  ; the original certificate of date 

of   birth,   issued   by   her   as   Ex.PW­1/C   and   photocopy   of   the   relevant   entry   in   the 

admission register as Ex.PW­1/D. 

 SC No. 37/12                          State Vs. Satender Chauhan                    Page Nos. 12 of 40
                                                     13
19.           After   closing   of   prosecution   evidence,   statement   of   accused   Satender 

Chauhan   was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.   Accused stated that he is innocent and had 

been falsely implicated in the case.  He further stated that there was an enmity between 

him and the family of the prosecutrix over filling of the water and to level the score, 

parents of prosecutrix lodged a false complaint against him.   He further stated that his 

signatures   were   obtained   forcibly   by   the   police   on   some   blank   papers   and   printed 

performs and later on, those papers were converted into various memos against him. 

The accused declined to lead evidence in his defence. 

20.           Arguments have been addressed by learned counsel for the accused as well 

as learned Additional PP for the State.

21.           Learned Additional PP has contended that prosecutrix has fully supported 

the   case   of  the   prosecution   and   that  prosecution   has  succeeded  in   proving   its  case 

against   the   accused   beyond   reasonable   doubt   by   examining   the   material   witnesses 

namely   prosecutrix  and   her  parents.   It   is  stated   that  in   view   of  the   testimony  of  the 

prosecutrix   no   other   evidence   is   required   and   has   accordingly   prayed   that   accused 

Satender Kumar  be convicted u/s.363/366/376 IPC.

22.           On the other hand, learned Legal Aid Counsel  for accused has contended 

that accused is innocent and has nothing to do with prosecutrix in the present case.  It is 

stated that prosecutrix was major at the time of incident and had gone away with some 

other  person and  was recovered later on    by her parents.   It is also  stated that the 

medical evidence does not support findings of rape and this fact is also reflected from 


 SC No. 37/12                          State Vs. Satender Chauhan                     Page Nos. 13 of 40
                                                       14

the fact that prosecutrix did not raise alarm while she was allegedly being taken away by 

the accused and  thus accused  is entitled to be acquitted of all charges in the present 

case and it is prayed accordingly.  

23.           I have heard the arguments put forward by ld. Addl. PP as well as learned 

Legal Aid counsel for the accused and have carefully gone through the record of the 

case.   I   have   also   carefully  considered     the   evidence   adduced   by  the   prosecution   in 

support of its case.

24.           In the present case prosecutrix is the only material witness put forth by the 

prosecution.     The   prosecutrix   is   alleged   to   have   been   taken   away   by   accused   on 

10.11.2011  and was recovered on 21.11.2011,  during which period, accused  took her 

to a room, situated at Sarai Pipal Thala, Delhi and  raped her against her wishes.   It is 

also alleged that child victim P was a minor girl aged about 13 years at the time of 

incident and had been kidnapped  by accused with intention to marry her and/or to force 

her to have illicit intercourse with him.  The age of child P would have direct  bearing on 

the case and it is necessary to examine this issue in the first instance. 


Age of the prosecutrix :­

25.           In the present case prosecutrix is stated to be aged about 13 years at the 

time   of   filing   of   the   complaint.   In   order   to   prove   the   age   of   the   prosecutrix,   the 

prosecution   has   examined   PW­1   Ms.   Suman   Bala,     who   produced   record   of   first 

attended school,  wherein prosecutrix was admitted in 1st class on the basis of admission 

form Ex.PW­1/A and affidavit of Sh. Ram Kumar Ex.PW­1/B.  In the said documents, the 



 SC No. 37/12                            State Vs. Satender Chauhan                      Page Nos. 14 of 40
                                                       15

date of birth of the prosecutrix has been mentioned as '18.10.1998' which was entered 

as such in the school record without any further verification.  



26.         Admittedly no birth certificate of the child i.e. the prosecutrix was submitted 

by her father at the time of her admission in the school.  Learned legal aid counsel for 

accused has contended that since no basis has been shown for recording of date of birth 

of prosecutrix in the school record, the prosecution has failed to prove that the date of 

birth of prosecutrix is '18.10.1998' as mentioned in the record produced by PW­1.  It is 

also contended that since the prosecutrix was studying in 8th class at the time of incident, 

she would definitely be more than 16 years of age. 
             In this regard, in case of Jarnail Singh Vs. State of Haryana, Cri. Appeal 

No.1209 of 2010 decided on 01/07/2013, the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that Rule 12 

of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, 2007 would be applicable 

while determining age even for child, who is victim of the crime.  



27.         Further,   in   case   of    Ashwani   Kumar   Saxena   vs.   State   of   M.P.   (2012)   9 

SCALE 90, it has been held that  :­

                "........  "Age determination inquiry" contemplated under section 7A of 

                the   Act   r/w   Rule   12   of   the   2007   Rules   enables   the   court   to   seek 

                evidence and in that process, the court can obtain the matriculation or 

                equivalent   certificates,   if   available.     Only   in   the   absence   of   any 

                matriculation or equivalent certificates the court need obtain the date 

                of   birth   certificate   from   the   school   first   attended   other   than   a   play 

                school.  Only in the absence of matriculation or equivalent certificate 


 SC No. 37/12                           State Vs. Satender Chauhan                        Page Nos. 15 of 40
                                                     16

                or that date of birth certificate from the school first attended, the court 

                need obtain the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal 

                authority   or   a   panchayat   (not   an   affidavit   but   certificates   or 

                documents). The question of obtaining medical opinion from a duly 

                constituted   Medical   Board   arises   only   if   the   above   mentioned 

                documents   are   unavailable.   In   case   exact   assessment   of   the   age 

                cannot be done, then the court, for reason to be recorded, may, if 

                considered   necessary,   give   the   benefit   to   the   child   or   juvenile   by 

                considering   his   or   her  age   on   lower   side   within   the  margin   of  one 

                year..."

28.         Thus, interpreting the rule 12 (3) the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that :­

                "We are of the view that admission register in the school in which the 

                candidate first attended is a relevant piece of evidence of date of birth. 

                The reasoning that the parents could have entered a wrong date of 

                birth in the admission register hence not a correct date of birth is equal 

                to  thinking  that  parents would  do  so  in  anticipation  that  child   would 

                commit a crime in future and, in that situation, they could successfully 

                raise a claim of juvenility."

29.         Since in Delhi Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, have 

been enacted, which have come into force w.e.f. 24.09.2009 and   the same would be 

applicable for determination of the age of the victim child.    The said rule is as under :­

                    12.Procedure to be followed in determination of Age.

                      (3)  In every case concerning a child or juvenile in conflict 
                      with law, the age determination inquiry shall be conducted 
                      by   the   court   or   the   Board   or,   as   the   case   may   be,   the 
                      Committee by seeking evidence by obtaining - 
30.           In the present case also the prosecution has produced record of first class to 

prove that the date of birth of prosecutrix is '18.10.1998'.  No manipulation, tampering, 

addition   or   alteration   could   be   brought   out   in   the   said   record   from   detailed   cross­

examination   of   PW­1.     Admittedly,   the   record   produced   by   PW­1   was   maintained   in 

normal  course  of  business of  the school  and  is  thus admissible  u/s.32  of  the  Indian 

Evidence Act.  Nothing has been brought on record to show that the school authorities 

were   in   any   manner   motivated   to   manipulate   their   record   to   favour   the   case   of   the 

prosecution.     In   view   of   the   judgment   of   Hon'ble   Supreme   Court   in   case   of  Jarnail  

Singh  (Supra)   and  Ashwani   Kumar   Saxena  (Supra),   I   am   of   the   opinion   that 

prosecution has succeeded in proving that the date of birth of prosecutrix is '18.10.1998' 

and   that   she   was   aged   about   13   years   and   1   month   at   the   time   when   first   alleged 

incident of sexual assault, reported by her in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C Ex. PW­7/B 

dated 23.11.2011, took place.   

 SC No. 37/12                            State Vs. Satender Chauhan                        Page Nos. 17 of 40
                                                     18



Whether the accused had kidnapped the prosecutrix ?
31.           The   next   issue   which   arises   for   consideration   is   whether,   accused   had 

kidnapped the prosecutrix out of the keeping of her lawful guardians/parents without their 

consent and had taken her to a house situated at Sarai Pipalthala and kept her there to 

force   her   or  seduce   her  to  have   illicit   intercourse   with  him  and/or   to   marry  him   and 

committed rape upon her, without her consent and against her wishes. 



32.           In   order   to   prove   that   prosecutrix   was   kidnapped   by   the   accused, 

prosecution  has examined Sh. Ram Kumar, father of the prosecutrix, as PW­5. He has 

deposed that on 10.11.2011, the prosecutrix aged about 13 years, had gone to market 

and did not return back home and though, he tried to search for her, he could not trace 

her and thus, he filed complaint Ex. PW­5/A.    He has also deposed that on 20.11.2011, 

the prosecutrix gave a call, which was attended by his wife and that on 21.11.2011, 

prosecutrix returned home and was produced before IO, by them on 22.11.2011.     He 

specifically denied during his cross­examination that prosecutrix used to love accused or 

that he had tried to make her understand, but when she did not agree, PW­5 shifted his 

residence.   He termed it correct that he made prosecutrix understand not to talk with 

accused as he was already married.   

33.           The PW­11 Smt. Sarita is the mother of the prosecutrix, who too deposed 

about the manner, in which, the prosecutrix went missing from her house on 10.11.2011. 

She also stated that they had suspicion against accused Satender Chauhan and had so, 

stated in their complaint made to the police.   Certain court questions were put to the 


 SC No. 37/12                          State Vs. Satender Chauhan                     Page Nos. 18 of 40
                                                      19

witness to clarify the reason for suspecting the accused, whereupon, PW­11 stated that 

earlier, accused was residing in the same building as tenant, where PW­11 was residing 

with her family including the prosecutrix, and that PW­11 used to remain unwell and 

thus,   she   sent   prosecutrix  to   bring   clothes   etc.,   from  the   roof.     When   she   observed 

accused talking to prosecutrix, she shifted her residence.     Further court question was 

asked   from   the   witness   as   to   time   gap   between   their   shifting   of   residence   and   the 

incidents, to which, PW­11 replied that there was a gap of 4 to 5 months.   In response to 

further   court   question,   PW­11   stated   that   she   used   to   go   to   pick   up   and   drop   her 

daughter to school, herself and that she was told by her daughter that accused used to 

go to her school sometimes. 
              During her further examination, PW­11 also stated that on being traced out, 

the prosecutrix had told her that accused had induced her to go with him on pretext of 

going for some outing and when, she refused, he abducted her forcibly and took her to 

Sarai   Peepalthala,   where   he   forcibly   put   vermilion   in   her   hair   (maang   bhar   di)   and 

established physical relations with her.  
              During her cross­examination, PW­11 denied that the prosecutrix was above 

16 years of age at the time of incident or that she had voluntarily gone with the accused 

and established sexual relations with him.  She also denied that she was aware of the 

relationship between the prosecutrix and the accused.   

34.           The prosecutrix i.e. victim child P was examined as PW­2.   In the present 

case, the prosecutrix went missing from her house on 10.11.2011 and was produced 

before   the   IO   by   her   parents   on   22.11.2011,   on   which   date,   her   statement   u/s   161 

Cr.P.C was recorded, wherein she deposed as under :­


 SC No. 37/12                           State Vs. Satender Chauhan                      Page Nos. 19 of 40
                                                    20

                "..   Bayan   kiya   ke   main   uprokat   pate   par   apne   mata­pita   va   bhai­

                behan ke saath rahti hai, aur kaksha 8 me Govt. School me padhati 

                hoon.   Pahle mere mata pita, H1 block, Jahangir Puri, me rahte the. 

                Aur  isi   makan   upar   Satender  naam  ka   lakda,   jo   Azamgarh   jile   ka 

                rahne wala bhi kiraye par rahta tha.  Jo mujse bat­chit kar leta tha aur 

                Azadpur mandi me kaam karta tha.   Isi dauran, meri usse dosti ho 

                gai, aur hum dono ka payar ho gaya tha.  Jo baad me, mere mata­

                pita  is makan ko chodkar A­409, Jahangir Puri me kiraye par rahne 

                lage. Main Satender se phone par S.T.D se bat­chit karti rahti thi. 

                Dinak 10/11/11 ko samay karib 10­11 baje din me bazar Jahangir  

                Puri  me   saman   lene   ja  rahi  thi,   ke   Satender   raste   mi mila,   jo  

                mere   se   payar   karta   tha,   jo   mujhe   shadi   ka   lalch   dekar   apne  

                kamre par Sarai Pital Thala le gaya.   Hum dono us kamre par  

                rahe.  Aur agle din, Satender mujhe lekar Kali Mandir­ A block,  

                gaya, jahan par hum dono ne Kali Mata ki Murti ko sakshi maan  

                kar man me vichar karke ek dusre se shadi ki kasme khai, us  

                vakat Mandir me aur koi nahi tha.   Baad me hum dono vapas  

                Satender ke kamre par pahunch gaye.  Jahan hum dono ne raat  

                ko sharirik sambandh pati­patni ke terah banaye.   Jo Satender 

                baad me, rojana ki terah Azadpur Mandi me kaam karne chala jata 

                tha.  Main kamre me akeli rah jaati thi. Jo mujhe baad me ass­pass  

                ke logo se pata chala, ke Satender pahle se shadi­shuda hai. Jo  

                maine Satender se is baat ka pata kiya, ke aap shadi­shuda ho,  

                jo Satender   ne mujhe batya, ke main Shadi­shuda hoon.   Par  

 SC No. 37/12                         State Vs. Satender Chauhan                     Page Nos. 20 of 40
                                                       21

                 maine apni patni ko chhod rakha hai.  Usse abhi koi talak na hone 

                 se main naraz ho gai.   Magar,   main samaj va mata­pita ke dar se 

                 Satender ke saath hi uske kamre par rahi.   Main Satender ko apne 

                 gaon me le jane ko kaha, to mana kar diya, aur kaha, ki mata­pita 

                 jagra ho chuka hai, vahan nahi jayenge.   Phir do din baad maine 

                 Satender ko apne mata­pita se milne ko kaha, to va mujhe, kal Dinak 

                 21­11­11 ko Jahangir Metro Station par chhod kar chala gaya.  Main 

                 apne mata­pita ke paas chali gai ............" 

35.        The prosecutrix appeared before the court to depose and was examined as 

PW­2, wherein, she deposed as under :­

                "At  present,   I   am  residing  at   the   above   mentioned   address.     I   was  

                residing   in   H­Block,   Jahangir   Puri,   with   my   parents   till   about   2   -   3  

                months prior to the incident. On 10.11.2011, I was going to market at  

                about 10:00 / 11:00 AM.  On that day, on my way to market I met  

                accused Satendra Chauhan.  He told me that wanted to marry me  

                and so I went with him.   I knew accused Satendra Chauhan since  

                about  one  year prior to   the   incident  as  accused  was  staying  in  the  

                same premises on the first floor in H­Block where I used to reside with  

                my parents on the ground floor.   Accused had then became my friend  

                and I used to speak to him on phone.   My father had seen accused  

                with me and had warned him 2 / 3 times but accused did not pay heed.  

                So   my father  changed   the   residence   and   we  shifted   to   the   present  


 SC No. 37/12                            State Vs. Satender Chauhan                        Page Nos. 21 of 40
                                                 22

                address.  I used to talk to accused on phone even after we had shifted  

                to A­Block, Jahangirpuri.  Accused knew my new address.  
                            On 10.11.2011, I went with accused.   He took me to a 

                house in Sarai Peepalthala where we stayed over night.   On the 

                next day, I married accused in Kali Mandir, A­Block, Jahangir Puri. 

                At that time, none else except me and accused were present in 

                the Mandir.  After getting married at Mandir, we returned back to 

                the room in Sarai Peepalthala where we had physical relations like 

                a man and wife.   Accused used to go for work to Azadpur Mandir  

                while I used to remain in the room itself.   After about two days, I  

                came to know from the neighbourers of the accused that he was  

                already married.  When accused returned back from work, I asked  

                him   if  he   was   already   married.     Accused  admitted  that  he   was  

                already married and that he had taken divorce from his first wife.  

                I was afraid of returning back to the house of my parents as I feared  

                that they would be defamed in the society so I asked accused to take  

                me to house of his parents so that I could meet them.  Accused stated  

                that he had already quarreled with his parents and refused to take me  

                to meet them.   I then asked accused to take me back to my parents  

                house.  Accused did not say anything and on 21.11.2011, he left me at  

                Jahangir Puri Metro Station from where I returned back to my parents  

                house.  I told everything to my parents and on 22.11.2011 my parents  

                took me to PS.  My statement was recorded and I was also taken for  

                medical examination to BJRM Hospital.  After my medical examination,  

 SC No. 37/12                        State Vs. Satender Chauhan                Page Nos. 22 of 40
                                                      23

                I and my mother returned back to PS.  I took the Police officials to the  

                room in Sarai Peepalthala where accused had taken me.   The room  

                was found locked and accused was not available there.   
                              I   was   taken   to   the   Court   for   my   statement   before   a  

                Magistrate   but   I   do   not   remember   the   date.     When   I   went   for   my  

                statement   before   the   learned   Magistrate,   I   had   met   one   lady   from  

                NGO, who told me to state before the Judge that four boys, whose  

                name   I   did   not   know,   had   met   me   and   had   put   something   in   a  

                handkerchief after smelling which I lost my consciousness.  I was sent  

                to Nirmal Chhaya after my statement and had also appeared before  

                CWC   (Child   Welfare   Committee).     I   told   before   CWC   that   it   was  

                wrongly   stated   that   I   had   met   four   boys   or   that   I   had   become  

                unconscious after in­hailing from their handkerchief.  I also told this to  

                the Police and my statement in this regard was also recorded by the  

                IO.      
                              On 06.02.2012, accused Satendra Chauhan met my father  

                at ISBT Bus Stand.  My father brought accused to PS Adarsh Nagar.  

                He also gave me a call and asked me to come to PS along with my  

                mother.     I   reached   PS   and   upon   my   identification,   accused   was  

                arrested.     I   as   well   as   accused   were   taken   to   the   room   at   Sarai  

                Peepalthala where accused had kept me.  The room was bolted from  

                outside but was not locked.  We went inside the room.  My white and  

                pink coloured suit which I was wearing when I had left my house and  

                gone with the accused was inside the said room.   My clothes were  


 SC No. 37/12                           State Vs. Satender Chauhan                     Page Nos. 23 of 40
                                                       24

                seized   by   the   IO.     It   was   also   the   suit   which   I   was   wearing   when  

                accused had established physical relations with me. 


             She identified her signatures on various documents and proved the recovery 

memo     prepared   by   the   IO   when   she   was   taken   by   her   parents   to   the   PS   as 

Ex.PW­2/A   ;   her   statement   u/s.164   Cr.P.C     as     Ex.PW­2/B   ;   the   arrest   memo   and 

personal search memo of accused as Ex.PW­2/C and  Ex.PW­2/D, respectively.   

             The witness duly identified the accused.  She also identified her clothes i.e. 

her shirt, salwar and chunni as Ex. P­1 to P­3 and stated that they were same clothes, 

which  she   was   wearing   when   she   went   away   with   the   accused   and   later   on   got 

recovered from the room of the accused.

36.          During  her  cross­examination, PW­2 stated  that she  and  accused  started 

talking  to each other two­three months after they (PW­2 and her family) shifted to room 

in H­block, Jahangir Puri, where accused was already residing on first floor since 203 

months prior to PW­2 having shifted there, she also deposed that her father had seen 

her talking to the accused near the park itself and had made her understand not to talk 

to accused  and also warned the accused to stay away from her.  She also stated that 

thereafter, she stopped talking to accused for 1­2 weeks and thereafter again started 

calling him from STD Booth near her school and that at that time, she was studying in 7 th 

class.  She further deposed that she had asked accused as to why he had not informed 

her about his marital status, but he did not say anything and that she told accused to 

take divorce from his wife and to marry her again after taking permission of his parents, 

but accused  did   not  say anything.    The  PW­2  categorically stated   that  accused  had 


 SC No. 37/12                           State Vs. Satender Chauhan                        Page Nos. 24 of 40
                                                 25

never told her about his wife and that she had asked him about his family and at that 

time, she had also asked him about his wife and that at that time, accused told him that 

he was not married.  She also stated that she did not think that it was important to meet 

family of the accused before she married him as accused had told her that as soon as 

they got married, he would take PW­2 to meet his parents and that he had asked her 

twice  earlier also to marry him, but she refused  and  told him that she was not of a 

marriageable age. 
             A specific court question was asked from PW­2, whether she would establish 

relationship as husband and wife with the accused, had she know that he was already 

married, to which, PW­2 responded in negative. 
             The PW­2 denied that she was above 18 years of age at the time of incident 

or that she had voluntarily married accused knowing that he was already married and 

had a girl child. 

37.          From the statement of the prosecutrix u/s 161 Cr.P.C dated 22.11.2011, and 

her deposition before the court as PW­2, recorded on 14.09.2012, it is seen that she has 

made specific allegations against the accused and elaborate upon the manner, in which 

he induced her to go with him and marry him by concealing the fact that he was already 

married.     The   prosecutrix   has   specifically   stated   in   her   statement   recorded   on 

14.09.2012 that she came to know that accused was already married after   two/three 

days of their marriage and that too, on being told by his neighbours.  During her cross­

examination, the prosecutrix stated that she had asked accused as to why, he had not 

informed her about his marital status, but he did not say anything.  She further told him 

to take divorce from his wife and to marry her (PW­2) again after taking permission of 


 SC No. 37/12                       State Vs. Satender Chauhan                 Page Nos. 25 of 40
                                                        26

her parents, but accused did not say anything.
               During   her   further   cross­examination,   the   prosecutrix   reiterated   that   the 

accused had told her that he was not married and he used to ask her to marry him, but 

she had refused and told him that she was not of marriageable age. 



38.            Learned legal aid counsel has contended that the fact that the prosecutrix 

herself used to call accused twice daily, as is brought out from her cross­examination, 

shows that whatever, has happened, was with her consent.   She has also contended 

that correct facts have been stated by the prosecutrix in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C 

i.e. Ex. PW­7/B and that even otherwise, considering the discrepancies in her statement 

u/s 164 Cr.P.C and her testimony as PW­2 in the court, she is not a reliable witnessf and 

accused is entitled to be acquitted in the case. 

39.            The contention made by ld. Legal aid counsel cannot be sustained because 

prosecutrix has clarified in her statement as PW­2 that when she went for her statement 

before ld. Magistrate, she had met one lady from NGO, who told her to state before the 

Judge that four boys, whose name, she did not know, had met her and put something in 

a handkerchief, after smelling which, she lost her consciousness and that thereafter she 

appeared before C.W.C (Child Welfare Committee) and told them that she had wrongly 

stated about having met with four boys and becoming unconscious after inhaling from 

their   handkerchief.     She   also   stated   that   she   had   told   this   fact   to   the   IO,   who   had 

recorded her statement in this regard. 

40.            Even otherwise, the fact that the prosecutrix had gone with the accused and 


 SC No. 37/12                             State Vs. Satender Chauhan                       Page Nos. 26 of 40
                                                        27

that they had solemnized some marriage ceremony after which, they started living as 

husband and wife, is the defence which accused had initially taken and put to material 

witnesses i.e. PW­2 prosecutrix/child P, PW­5 Ram Kumar­father of the prosecutrix and 

PW­11 Sarita, mother of the prosecutrix.  The PW­3, Rajeev, landlord of the premises, 

where   accused   had   kept   the   prosecutrix,   was   also   put   questions   in   his   cross­

examination, in response to which, the witness stated that accused had shifted to the 

rented accommodation with the prosecutrix after two days of his taking the same on rent 

and that accused and the prosecutrix used to reside in the said rented accommodation 

happily and he never heard them quarreling.  It is also noteworthy that the clothes of the 

prosecutrix i.e. her salwar, jacket of red colour and kurta were seized from the rented 

room, which PW­3 had rented out to the accused, and PW­3 duly identified the said 

clothes in the court as Ex. P­1 to P­3 and stated that they had been seized by the IO in 

his presence, from the rented accommodation of the accused, vide seizure memo Ex. 

PW­3/A. 

41.            In contradiction, in his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C, the accused took a contrary 

defence stating that he had been falsely implicated in the case as there was enmity 

between him and the family of the prosecutrix over filling of the water and to level the 

score, parents of the prosecutrix lodged a false complaint against him.     This belated 

defence   taken   by   the   accused   is   totally   falsified   by   the   findings   on   the   MLC   of   the 

prosecutrix i.e. Ex. PW­6/A, wherein the hymen was found torn and the FSL result Ex. 

PX, which showed positive findings for presence of human semen on Ex. 1h1 - Cotton 

wool   swab   on   a   stick   described   as   'vaginal   secretion',   1h2­   microslides   having   faint 

smear kept in a plastic case and 3a­one lady's shirt.  

 SC No. 37/12                            State Vs. Satender Chauhan                       Page Nos. 27 of 40
                                                        28
42.            The only defence, which, accused could have claimed was that prosecutrix 

went with him voluntarily, without any inducement, force or pressure and later married 

him   and   established   sexual   relations   with   him,   of   her   own   free   will,   but   as   already 

observed hereinabove, the prosecutrix was aged about 13 years and one month at the 

time   of   incident   and   thus,   defence   of   consent   is   not   availble   to   the   accused   in   the 

present case.  Even otherwise, it is brought out from the record, specially the testimony 

of victim child P that  accused concealed the fact that he was already married from her 

and thus, the consent of the prosecutrix cannot be said to be free from consideration. 


43.              In the case of  Pradeep Kumar Verma vs. State of Bihar and Anr. AIR 

2007 SC 3059, Hon'ble Apex Court has held that :­

                   "9.  The crucial expression in Section 375 which defines rape as against 

                   her   will.     It   seems   to   connote   that   the   offending   act   was   despite 

                   resistance and oppositions of the woman.  IPC does not define consent 

                   in positive terms.  But what cannot be regarded as consent is explained 

                   by Section 90 which reads as follows :­

                   "consent   given   firstly   under   fear   of   injury   and   secondly   under   a 

                   misconception of fact is not consent at all".

44.            The observation made by the Hon'ble Apxe Court in the case of Pradeep 

Kumar verma (supra), were discussed by Hon'ble Supreme Court in case of Dilip Vs. 

State   of   Madhya   Pradesh,     decided     on   16.04.2013   and   while   discussing   these 

observations, it was held that  :­ 


 SC No. 37/12                             State Vs. Satender Chauhan                      Page Nos. 28 of 40
                                                      29

                "That is what is explained in first para of Section 90.   There are two 

                grounds specified in Section 90 which are analogous to coercion and 

                mistake   of   fact   which   are   the   familiar   grounds   that   can   vitiate   a 

                transaction  under the  jurisprudence  of  our country as well as other 

                countries.  The factors set out in first part of Section 90 are from the 

                point of view of the victim and second part of Section 90 enacts the 

                corresponding  provisions  from  the  point of view  of the  accused.    It 

                envisages that the accused has knowledge or has reason to believe 

                that the consent was given by the victim in consequences of fear of 

                injury or misconception of fact.  Thus, the second part lays emphasis 

                on the knowledge or reasonable belief of the person who obtains the 

                tainted   consent.   The   requirements   of   both   the   parts   should   be 

                cumulatively satisfied.   In other words, the Court has to see whether 

                the person giving the consent has given it under fear or misconception 

                of fact and the court should also be satisfied that the person doing the 

                act i.e the alleged offender is conscious of the fact or should have 

                reason   to   think   that   but   for   the   fear   or   misconception,   the   consent 

                would not have been given.  This is the scheme of Section 90 which is 

                conched in negative terminology.  As observed by this Court in Deelip 

                Singh @ Dilip Kumar vs. State of Bihar (2005 (1) SCC 88).  Section 90 

                cannot be considered as an exhaustive definition of consent for the 

                purpose of IPC.   The normal connotation and concept of consent is 

                not intended to be excluded." 

 SC No. 37/12                          State Vs. Satender Chauhan                       Page Nos. 29 of 40
                                                     30
45.           Further, in case of Uday vs. State of Karnataka, AIR 2003 SC 1639,   the 

Hon'ble Apex Court observed that :­

                 "We are inclined to agree with this view that there is no strait jacket 

                 formula for determining whether consent given by the prosecutrix to 

                 sexual   intercourse   is   voluntary   ;   or   whether   it   is   given   under   a 

                 misconception of fact.  In the ultimate analysis, the tests laid down by 

                 the   Courts   provide   at   best   guidance   to   the   judicial   mind   while 

                 considering a question of consent, but the Court must, in each case, 

                 consider  the   evidence   before   it  and   the   surrounding   circumstances, 

                 before reaching a conclusion, because each case has its own peculiar 

                 facts, which may have a bearing on the question whether the consent 

                 was voluntary, or was given under a misconception of fact.   It must 

                 also weigh the evidence, keeping in view the fact that the burden is on 

                 the   prosecution   to   prove   each   and   every   ingredient   of   the   offence, 

                 absence of consent being one of them.."

46.           It is a settled legal proposition that once the statement of prosecutrix inspires 

confidence and is accepted by the Court as such, conviction can be based only on the 

solitary evidence of the prosecutrix and no corroboration of the same is required unless 

there   are   compelling   reasons   which   necessitate   the   Court   for   corroboration   of   her 

statement.     Corroboration   of   testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   as   a   condition   for   judicial 

reliance is not a requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under the given facts 

and circumstances.  Minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies should not be a 

ground   for   throwing   out   an   otherwise   reliable   prosecution   case.     A   prosecutrix 


 SC No. 37/12                          State Vs. Satender Chauhan                     Page Nos. 30 of 40
                                                          31

complaining of having been a victim of the offence of rape is not an accomplice after the 

crime and her testimony has to be appreciated on the principle of probabilities just as the 

testimony of any other witness; a high degree of probability having been shown to exist 

in view of the subject matter being a criminal charge.   However, if the Court finds it 

difficult   to   accept   the   version   of   the   prosecutrix   on   its   face   value,   it   may   search   for 

evidence,   direct   or   substantial,   which   may   lend   assurance   to   her   testimony.     I   am 

supported   in   my   view   by   judgment   in   case   titled   as  Vimal   Suresh   Kamble   Vs.  

Chaluverapinake   Apal   S.P.   &   Anr.,   AIR   2003   SC   818  and  Vishnu   Vs.   State   of  

Maharashtra, AIR 2006 SC 508.  

47.            It has also been held in the case of  Tameezuddin @ Tammu Vs. State  

(NCT of Delhi), (2009) 15 SCC 566, this Court held has under :­

                 "It   is   true   that   in   a   case   of   rape   the   evidence   of   the 

                 prosecutrix must be given predominant consideration, but to 

                 hold that this evidence has to be accepted even if the story 

                 is improbable and belies logic, would be doing violence to 

                 the   very   principles   which   govern   the   appreciation   of 

                 evidence in a criminal matter."

48.            It has been further held in the case of Jai Krishna Mandal & Anr. Vs. State  

of Jharkhand, (2010) 14 SCC 534, as under :­

             "The only evidence of rape was the statement of the prosecutrix herself 

             and when this evidence was read in its totality, the story projected by the 

             prosecutrix was so improbable that it could not be believed."


 SC No. 37/12                              State Vs. Satender Chauhan                        Page Nos. 31 of 40
                                                     32
49.          In case of  State of Punjab Vs. Gurmit Singh & Ors. AIR 1996 SC 1393, 

the   Supreme   Court   held   that   in   cases   involving   sexual   offences,   harassment, 

molestation etc. the court is duty bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. 

It was held that:
50.          The nutshell of foregoing discussion is that  I am of the considered opinion 

that   the   prosecution   has   successfully   proved   that   accused   induced   prosecutrix   P,   a 

minor girl aged about 13 years,  and obtained her  consent by concealing the fact that he 

was already married and was having a girl child from the said wedlock.  The prosecution 


 SC No. 37/12                          State Vs. Satender Chauhan                    Page Nos. 32 of 40
                                              33

has further proved that the accused induced the prosecutrix P and obtained her said 

consent with intention to have illicit relations with him and to compel her to marry him 

and under the said inducement,  he   took the prosecutrix P to a house situated at Sarai 

Pipal Thala and committed rape upon her from 10.11.2011 to 21.11.2011 and as such 

the prosecution has succeeded in proving  the guilt of the accused Satender  on the face 

of  record, beyond the reasonable doubts.  Accordingly, I hold guilty accused Satender 

for the offences u/s. 363/366/376 IPC and he is convicted accordingly.  

           File be consigned to  the record room.

             In  the present case, the convict - Satender Chauhan  has  been convicted 

u/s­ 363/366/376 IPC. 
             I  have  heard  the  arguments  on  the  point of sentence put forward by Ld. 

Addl. PP  for State and Ld. LAC  for  for the convict.

2.           It has been submitted by the Ld.  Addl. PP  that in view of serious nature of 


 SC No. 37/12                         State Vs. Satender Chauhan        Page Nos. 34 of 40
                                                       35

offence committed by the convict, he   convict does not deserve any leniency and she 

prays that maximum sentence  prescribed by the law may be imposed upon the convict. 



3.            On the other hand, it has been submitted by the learned LAC  for the convict 

submits  that the convict­ Satender Chauhan  is aged about 25 years and is married and 

is  having  wife   and  a  minor  girl.   It  is  also  submitted   that  convict  is also  having  one 

married   sister,   two   younger  brothers  and   old   aged   parents,   who   are   living   in   village 

Saraiya,   Post   Jigar   Sandi,   PS   Jahana   Ganj,   Distt.   Azam   Garh,   UP.     It   is   further 

submitted that convict  belongs to a low strata of society and has been in custody for the 

last about 21 months.  It is further submitted that convict is the sole bread earner of his 

family  and is not a previous convict and is not involved in any other case and she prays 

that  a lenient view may be   taken   in this case and sentence for the period already 

undergone by him may be awarded and  he be given a chance of  rehabilitation. 



4.            I have carefully considered the submissions made by Ld.  Addl. PP  and Ld. 

LAC   and have carefully gone through the record of the case. 



5.            In the present case, the convict­ Satender Chauhan  has been convicted  for 

committing   the   offence   punishable   u/s-   363/366/376.   It   is   relevant   to   mention   that 

convict in the first instance  won over  the confidence of the prosecutrix P, a minor girl 

aged about 13 years, by telling  her that he would marry her and thereafter, kidnapped 

her and took her to a house at Sarai Pipal Thala.  He also underwent a sham marriage 

ceremony with her at temple and put vermilion on her forehead and created an illusion in 

the   mind   of   victim   child   that   he   had   married   her   and   under   the   garb   of   consensual 


 SC No. 37/12                            State Vs. Satender Chauhan                     Page Nos. 35 of 40
                                                      36

sexual intercourse, he in fact raped her continuously from 10.11.2011 to 21.11.2011. 

The fact that convict was married came to knowledge of the victim child 2/3 days after 

her so called marriage with the convict and when confronted by her, convict failed to 

give any reply to her queries.  Due to the acts of the convict, the  victim child was faced 

with such a precarious situation that she could neither return back to her parents, nor 

could   she   leave   the   accused.     In   this  manner,  the   convict  continued   to   rape   her   till 

21.11.2011.   The convict not only cheated upon his own wife, but also spoiled the life of 

the a minor innocent girl aged about 13 years to satisfy his lust.  Since, the convict did 

not have any regard for his wife and child, when he was pursuing and inducing a minor 

girl child P to marry him, he is not entitled to a lenient view by taking  plea that he being 

the sole earning member, is required to discharge his responsibility towards his wife, 

minor child and other family members.   In my opinion, convict is not entitled to   any 

leniency.  I hereby award sentence the convict Satender Chauhan as under ­

           (i)   For   the   offence   u/s   363   IPC,   the   convict   Satender   Chauhan   is 

           sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of three  years along with 

           a fine of Rs. 2,000/­(Rs. Two  thousand only), in default of payment of fine, 

           to undergo S.I for three months.
           (ii)   For   the   offence   u/s   366   IPC,   the   convict   Satender   Chauhan   is 

           sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of five  years along with a 

           fine of Rs. 2,000/­(Rs. Two  thousand only), in default of payment of fine, to 

           undergo S.I for three  months.
           (iii)   For   the   offence   u/s   376   IPC,   the   convict   Satender   Chauhan   is 

           sentenced to Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of seven years along with 

           a fine of Rs. 5,000/­(Rs. Five  thousand only), in default of payment of fine, 


 SC No. 37/12                           State Vs. Satender Chauhan                      Page Nos. 36 of 40
                                                          37

                  to undergo S.I for six  months.
                                    All the sentences shall run concurrently.  

6.                  The convict has been in custody since 06.02.2012 continuously. Benefit u/s 

428 Cr.PC be also  given to the convict for the period already undergone by him during 

trial, as per rule.  

7.                  Coming now to the aspect of compensation to the victim, who is a  minor girl, 

the Hon'ble Apex Court has time and again observed that that subordinate Courts trying 

the offences of sexual assault have the jurisdiction to award the compensation to the 

victims being an offence against the basic human right and violative of Article 21 of the 

Constitution   of   India.     In   a   case   titled   as  Bodhisattwa   Gautam   vs.   Subhra  

Chakraborty, AIR 1996 SC 922, it has been held by Hon'ble Supreme Court that the 

jurisdiction to pay compensation (interim and final) has to be treated to be a part of the 

over all jurisdiction of the Courts trying the offences of rape, which is an offence against 

basic human rights as also the Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty and Life. 

 

8.                  Even otherwise, the concept of welfare and well being of children is basic for 

any civilized society and this has a direct bearing on the state of health and well being of 

the   entire   community,   its   growth   and   development.     It   has   been   time   and   again 

emphasized   in   various   legislations,   international   declarations   as   well   as   the   judicial 

pronouncements that the Children are a "supremely important national asset" and the 

future well being of the nation depends on how its children grow and develop.   In this 

regard  reference is made  to  the following  observations of Hon'ble  Supreme  Court in 


 SC No. 37/12                                State Vs. Satender Chauhan             Page Nos. 37 of 40
                                                     38

case of Laxmi Kant Pandey Vs. Union of India (1984) 2 SCC, 244, that :

9.            Therefore, in order to provide Restorative and Compensatory Justice to the 

victim   i.e   prosecutrix,   I   hereby   direct   the   GNCT  of  Delhi   through   Principal   Secretary 

(Home) to grant compensation to the tune of Rs. 1,00,000/­ (Rs. One lac only) to the 

prosecutrix.  The said amount shall be used for her welfare and rehabilitation, under the 

supervision of Welfare Officer, so nominated by the Government of NCT of Delhi. 



10.           A copy of this order be sent to the Principal Secretary (Home), GNCT of 

Delhi, Chief Secretary, GNCT of Delhi, Principal Secretary (Social Welfare), GNCT of 

Delhi   and   Director,   Department   of   Social   Welfare   (Women   and   Child   Development), 

GNCT of Delhi, for information and necessary action under intimation to this Court. 




 SC No. 37/12                          State Vs. Satender Chauhan                    Page Nos. 39 of 40
                                                    40
11.          The convict is informed that he has a right to prefer an appeal against this 

judgment.
             Copies of  the judgment and order on the  point of sentence be supplied to 

the convict, free of cost.
             File be consigned to the record room.

