1.          The above named accused have been chargesheeted
by the prosecution for having committed the offences punishable
u/s.366/376/506/109/34 IPC and u/s.6 of I.T.P. Act.
2.          As per the prosecution case, information was received
in the police station on 07.5.2012 at about 2.35 p.m. regarding a
quarrel at House No.A-489, near Mother Dairy, Sector-15, Dwarka.
Same was reduced into writing as DD No.15A and was marked as
SI Umesh Kumar for suitable action. Accordingly, SI Umesh Kumar
reached the aforesaid spot and met the informant Arun Kumar,
who told him that the victim girl has gone to House No.E-202,
Bharat Vihar. SI Umesh Kumar reached the House No.E-202, where
he met the prosecutrix 'S' (real name withheld in order to conceal
her identity), who told her that she alongwith two other girls
namely 'SR' and 'G' (real names withheld in order to conceal her
identity) have been raped. He brought all the girls to police station
and produced them before the SHO. The SHO handed over them to
SI Nirmal Sharma for further inquiries. SI Nirmal Sharma recorded




SC No.75/13.                                            Page 2 of 26
 the statement of prosecutrix 'S', who stated that she alongwith the
prosecutrix 'G' had come to Delhi about ten days ago with a lady
named Sunita in search of a good job and on reaching Delhi,
Sunita took them to a house in Mahavir Enclave, where Kishan and
his wife Monika were staying. On 03.5.2012 the landlord of the
house evicted them from the house. Monika took her alongwith the
prosecutrix 'SR' as well as 'G' to Shani Bazar and left them on
Shani Bazar road. After sometime, Kishan reached there and called
his friend Balram. Balram reached there in his Maruti car and took
three girls to a house where he committed rape upon the
prosecutrix 'S' and Kishan committed rape upon the prosecutrix
'SR' and 'G'. She further stated that Kishan and Balram had
threatened them not to narrate the incident to anybody or
otherwise they would be killed. They became frightened as they
did not know anybody in Delhi. In the morning, Kishan brought
them to Sector-14, Dwarka Metro Station, from where he took
them to Pooja's house in Sector-15, Dwarka, on foot. After
sometime, Kishan took 'G' and 'SR' to his room and left the
prosecutrix 'S' at the house of Pooja. In the house of Pooja, 'S' was
raped by a person on 04.5.2012 whom she did not know. She had
refused to permit that person to have intercourse with her but was
threatened by Pooja. Thereafter, 'S' went to the house of Monika.
Meanwhile, Monika had come to know that her husband Kishan
had raped 'G' and 'SR' and upon this a quarrel took place between
her and her husband. 'S' and 'G' told Monika that they went to go
to their native village but she told them that they will have to
compensate her for the expenses of these days by earning for her
and confined them inside her house. In the morning, 'S' got an
opportunity to come out of the house and asked the person to




SC No.75/13.                                            Page 3 of 26
 make a call at telephone no.100, upon which the police reached
that house and recovered them.
3.             On the basis of aforesaid statement of the prosecutrix
'S', FIR was got registered u/s.376(2)(g)/376/366/506/109 IPC. The
investigation was commenced by SI Nirmal Sharma. She recorded
the statement of remaining two prosecutrixes 'SR' and 'G'. She
took them to DDU Hospital for medical examination. 'G' and 'SR'
did not give their consent for gynaecological examination. 'S' was
medically examined. She prepared the site plan of various spots of
incident at the instance of all the three girls. Accused Monika
came to be arrested on 08.5.2012. The three girls were produced
before   the     concerned   Ld.   Magistrate,   who   recorded   their
statement u/s.164 Cr.PC and thereafter they were sent to Nari
Niketan. Accused Pooja was arrested from her house on 09.5.2012.
Accused Balram was arrested on 13.5.2012 from his house
no.C-2/10, Bhagwati Garden, at the instance of the three girls. His
Maruti Alto car bearing registration no.DL-9CS-3199 was also
seized. He was got medically examined in DDU Hospital and the
exhibits handed over by the doctor were seized. The call details
record of the mobile pone of accused Balram and accused Kishan
were obtained. The statements of various witnesses were recorded
u/s.161 Cr.PC. Intense search was made for accused Kishan but he
could not be traced.
4.             Accordingly, Charge Sheet was filed against accused
Monika, Pooja and Balram. The name of accused Kishan was
mentioned in column no.12. Later on, accused Kishan came to be
arrested on 27.12.2012 in Dwarka Court and a supplementary




SC No.75/13.                                              Page 4 of 26
 Charge Sheet was filed against him.
5.          Upon committal of the case to the court of Sessions,
Charge u/s.376 IPC, u/s.506 IPC and u/s.109 IPC was framed
against accused Balram on 04.9.2012. On the same date, Charge
u/s.3 and u/s.6 of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act 1956 was
framed against accused Pooja and Charge u/s.109 IPC was framed
against accused Monika. On 22.2.2013 Charge u/s.376 IPC and u/s.
506 IPC was framed against accused Kishan.
6.          All the accused pleaded not guilty to the aforesaid
charges and accordingly trial was held. The prosecution has
examined 23 witnesses to prove the charges against the accused.
The accused were examined u/s.313 Cr.PC on 13.11.2013 wherein
they denied all the incriminating facts and circumstances put to
them. However, accused Monika and Kishan admitted that
prosecutrix 'S' and 'G' were brought to Delhi by a co-villager Sunita
who kept them in their house, where prosecutrix 'S' was also
staying who was brought to Delhi by a neighbourhood lady. They
admitted that the three girls remained with them for three days
and thereafter a quarrel took place between them and their
landlord, upon which a call was made at telephone no.100 and the
police reached the spot.
7.          Accused Balram and accused Pooja stated that they do
not know any of the three girls.
8.          I have heard Ld. APP, Ld. Counsels for the accused and
have perused the material on record.
 9.          I may note here that the prosecutrix 'S' examined as
PW6, prosecutrix 'SR' as PW7 and prosecutrix 'G' as PW14. PW7
and PW14 have turned completely hostile and did not support the
case of the prosecution in any respect. PW6 did not turn hostile
and her testimony would be discussed in the later part of this
judgment.
10.         It was submitted by the Ld. APP that even though PW7
and PW14 have turned hostile, the case of the prosecution is fully
established against accused Monika and Balram and Kishan by the
testimony of PW6, which is corroborated by the testimony of PW8
(informant) and PW15. She also submitted that the testimony of
PW6 finds full support from the statement of all the three girls
recorded u/s.164 Cr.PC. She also argued that PW7 & PW14 had
supported allegations against the accused in their statement u/s.
164 Cr.PC but they did not speak truth before this court during the
course of their testimony, on account of threat and pressure from
the side of the accused. She submitted that the accused could not
be permitted to take advantage of their own illegal acts of
intimidating the witnesses i.e. PW7 & PW14 and their conviction
can be ordered merely on the basis of testimony of PW6 coupled
with the statements u/s.164 Cr.PC of the three girls.
11.         On the other hand, Ld. Counsel for the accused
submitted that the prosecution case is nothing but a false and
concocted story and the accused have been falsely implicated in
this case. It is argued that no call of rape or prostitution had been
received either in the police control room or in the police station. It




SC No.75/13.                                              Page 6 of 26
 is submitted that the initial call upon which DD No.15A has been
recorded, is regarding a quarrel which vindicates the stand taken
by the accused that in fact, there was a quarrel between accused
Monika, accused Kishan and their landlord, upon which call was
made to PCR. It is further submitted that PW7 and PW14 have
rightly turned hostile before this court as no offence had taken
place at all and the testimony of PW6 also cannot be relied upon
as the same is extremely doubtful and not reliable. It is also
submitted that there is no mention of House No.E-202, Bharat
Vihar, in DD No.15A and it has not been explained by any witness
as to how the police reached the said house and recovered the
three girls from there. It is submitted that all the accused are
liable to be acquitted.
12.         The informant Arun Kumar Tiwari has been examined
as PW8. According to him, he runs a Mother Dairy Milk Booth
bearing no.16672 at Vikas Vihar. He further deposed that on
07.5.2012 at about 2.30 p.m., he saw a girl sitting at a distance
from his shop and weeping. About 10 - 20 persons were present at
that plot. The girl told them that she was kept confined by one
Monika in her room near Shani Bazar and intended to force her
into prostitution. She requested them to send her to her native
village in Madhya Pradesh as she did not want to go to Monika's
place. She disclosed her name as 'S'. The witness further stated
that he made a call at telephone no.100 and police reached the
spot and took the girl alongwith them. In the cross examination, he
denied that the police had made any inquiry from him or had
recorded his statement. He also denied the other suggestions put
to him on behalf of the accused.
 13.        PW2 was the Duty Officer in P.S. Dwarka South on
07.5.2012. She had received call from Police Control Room on that
day regarding the quarrel at House No.A-489, near Mother Dairy,
Sector-15, Dwarka, and recorded the same as DD No.15A, which
she proved as Ex.PW2/A. According to her, DD was marked to SI
Umesh Kumar.
14.        SI Umesh Kumar has been examined as PW15. He
deposed that on receipt of DD No.15A, he alongwith PSI Mahesh
reached the spot i.e. House No.A-489, Bharat Vihar, New Delhi, but
did not find either the complainant or assailant.      He further
deposed that when they reached near Mother Dairy in Bharat
Vihar. They met a person namely Arun Tiwari (PW8) who had made
the call at telephone no.100. He told them that the girl, on whose
behalf, he had made call, is present in House No.E-202, Bharat
Vihar, New Delhi. Accordingly, they reached the said house where
they found the girl namely 'S' present. Two more girls namely 'G'
and 'SR' were also present there alongwith her. 'S' told them that
they have been raped. He apprised the SHO about what the 'S'
had told them and on the direction of the SHO, he brought the
three girls to the police station and thereafter case was entrusted
to SI Nirmal Sharma. In the cross examination, he deposed that he
had not recorded the statement of Arun Tiwari as at that time, FIR
had not been registered. He also did not make any inquiry
regarding ownership of House No.A-489 and the persons residing
therein. He did not prepare any document at House No.E-202. He
did not record the statement of 'S'. He further denied the
suggestions put to him on behalf of the accused.
 15.         Thus, it is established that the prosecutrix 'S' was seen
weeping in the gali by PW8 and at her request, PW8 had made a
call at telephone no.100. The call was entrusted to PW15, who
reached the spot and met PW8, who directed him to House
No.E-202, where PW15 saw the three girls and brought them to
police station. There is nothing in the cross examination of either
PW8 or PW15 to doubt the recording of DD No.15A upon the call of
PW8, the visit of PW15 to House No.E-202, the recovery of all the
three girls from that house and they having been brought to the
police station by PW15. It is true, as submitted by the Ld. Defence
Counsels, that PW8 has not mentioned his mobile number, from
which he made a call at telephone no.100 either in his statement
u/s.161 Cr.PC or in his examination in chief. However, I do not
think that it effects the case of the prosecution in any manner. The
DD No.15A Ex.PW2/A mentions that the call was received from
mobile no.9716112616. No question has been put to PW8 in the
cross examination that this mobile number does not belong to him
or was not being used by him. Therefore, it has to be taken that
the accused admit that the call was made by PW8 from the
aforesaid mobile number. It was also argued on behalf of the
accused that there is nothing on record to show how PW15
reached House No.E-202, when the said house number wasnot
mentioned in DD No.15A Ex.PW2/A. The argument is patently
without any force. It has been explained by PW15 that when he
reached House No.A-489, Bharat Vihar, New Delhi. He did not find
either the complainant or the assailant there and he was informed
by PW8, who had made call at telephone no.100, that the girl on
whose behalf he had made call is present in House No.E-202.
 Accordingly, PW15 had reached the House No.E-202, Bharat Vihar,
and recovered the three girls from there.
16.        As already noted herein-above, PW7 (prosecutrix 'SR')
and PW14 (prosecutrix 'G') have not supported the case of the
prosecution and have turned hostile. The relevant portion of the
testimony of PW7 is reproduced hereunder :
17.         She was declared hostile by Ld. APP and in the cross
examination conducted by Ld. APP, she denied having spoken
anything against the accused to the police. She further stated that
she had given a false statement to the Ld. Magistrate at the
instance of police officials n his statement Ex.PW3/C. In the cross
examination conducted on behalf of the accused, she admitted
that she alongwith prosecutrix 'S' and 'G' had slept in a room in
the house of Monika's Bhabhi whereas accused Kishan had slept
outside the room. She also deposed that they had bolted the door
of the room from inside and opened the door in the morning of the
next day.
18.         The relevant portion of the testimony of PW14 is
reproduced hereunder :
19.         She was shown her statement recorded u/s.164 Cr.PC
Ex.PW3/B but she could not say whether it is her statement
claiming to be illiterate. She also could not say whether thumb
impression at point A on the same was hers. She further deposed
that she had stated to the Ld. Magistrate whatever she was asked
to say by the police officials as they had threatened her that in
case she was not given statement as per their wish they will keep
her in jail for long time. She identified accused Monika and
accused Kishan in the court. She was not cross examined on
behalf of accused at all.
 20.        The prosecutrix 'S' has been examined as PW6. She
deposed that on 01.5.2012 a co-villager lady named Sunita met
her and asked her to accompany her to Delhi where she can get
some work or job. They boarded a train for Delhi on the same day
and reached Delhi on 02.5.2012. Another girl named 'G' of the
same village was also with them. On reaching Delhi, Sunita took
them to a house at Prahlad Market, Sector-1, Dwarka, New Delhi,
where accused Kishan and his wife Monika were staying. Sunita
told them that Kishan is his brother and Monika is her Bhabhi. She
further stated that they remained there for about 4 or 5 days and
then said house was to be vacated. They shifted to another
accommodation in Sector-14, Dwarka. In the night, she alongwith
accused Monika and prosecutrix 'G' went to Shanti Chowk but
accused Monika returned to her residence soon. Her husband
accused Kishan met them in Shani Market and took them to some
other place i.e. house of one of his friends. One person Balram was
present in his house and he committed intercourse with her
against her consent. She further deposed that on the next
morning, accused Kishan brought her and prosecutrix 'G' back to
his place of residence and a fight ensued between Kishan and
Monika as both held responsible each other for bringing them (the
three girls) to Delhi. She told Monika that she wants to go back to
her native village and insisted that she wanted to leave that day
itself. But accused Monika kept her confined for 5 or 6 days more
and did not permit her to go to her native village. She asked a boy
residing in the neighbourhood to call police and on her request
that boy called police. Police came to the house and took herself,
prosecutrix 'G', Sunita and Monika to the police station. Accused




SC No.75/13.                                         Page 14 of 26
 Kishan was not present in the house at that time as he had gone
somewhere. She narrated the whole story to the police officials in
the police station and police officials recorded her statement
Ex.PW6/A. From the police station, she and the prosecutrix 'G' was
taken to hospital where they were medically examined. Next day
they were brought to the court and produced before the Ld.
Magistrate, who recorded their statement. She proved her
statement u/s.164 Cr.PC as Ex.PW3/A. Thereafter they were taken
to Nirmal Chhaya and lodged themselves there. She also deposed
that she had taken the police officials to the house of accused
Balram where he was arrested in her presence vide arrest memo
Ex.PW6/B. She identified accused Balram, accused Monika and
accused Pooja in court. She was declared hostile by Ld. APP on
certain points and was cross examined by him. In the cross
examination conducted by Ld. APP, she denied that the accused
Kishan had met her at her native village or that the prosecutrix
'SR' was also with them when she, prosecutrix 'G' and Monika had
gone to Shani Market. She also denied that she had mentioned in
her statement to the police that accused Kishan had committed
sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix 'G' and 'SR'. She also
denied that accused Balram, after committing intercourse with
her, had threatened her not to disclose the same to anybody or
otherwise, he will kill her. She admitted that accused Monika and
Pooja were also arrested in her presence and she had shown the
place where accused Balram had committed rape upon her to the
police and the police had made its rough site plan as Ex.PW6/D in
her presence.
21.        In the cross examination conducted on behalf of




SC No.75/13.                                        Page 15 of 26
 accused Monika and accused Balram, she admitted that when
accused Monika was asked to vacate her house at Prahlad Market,
her all belongings and household goods were lying outside the
house. She admitted that the accused Monika had told her to see
Shani Market and she (Monika) had gone to guard her household
articles. She admitted that she as well as prosecutrix 'G' were
having mobile phone but added that she had not saved the mobile
number of Monika in her mobile phone. She was confronted with
her FIR Ex.PW6/A where she had not stated that accused Monika
had told her that she would drop her at her native village after
some days, but she did not permit her to leave for her native
village. It may be noted here that it is mentioned in the statement
Ex.PW6/A that this witness and the prosecutrix 'G' had told
accused Monika that she would go to their native village but
Monika asked them who would earn and pay for their expenses till
that date and confined them inside her house. She denied the
suggestion that the accused Monika had not kept her confined in
her house and had not stopped her from leaving Delhi for her
native village. She further deposed that they reached the house of
accused Balram at about 11 p.m. or 12 midnight and she was
taken to the second floor of the house where accused Balram and
another elder person were present. No food was prepared in the
house and they did not take any food during the night. She denied
that she had gone to that house voluntarily and added that she
was taken there by accused Kishan.
22.         After the arrest of the accused Kishan, PW6 was
recalled for further testimony. She identified him also. In the cross
examination conducted on behalf of accused Kishan, she admitted




SC No.75/13.                                           Page 16 of 26
 that she had gone alongwith him to the house of Monika's Bhabhi
and 'SR' as well as 'G' were also with them. She admitted that in
the house of Monika's Bhabhi, she alongwith 'SR' and 'G' had slept
in one room which was bolted by 'G' from inside and accused
Kishan had slept in the drawing room alongwith parents-in-law of
Monika's Bhabhi. She admitted that the door of the room was
opened in the morning by 'G' and after taking breakfast in that
house in the morning, they returned alongwith accused Kishan to
the house where accused Monika was present.
23.        PW3 is the Ld. Magistrate, who had recorded the
statement u/s.164 Cr.PC of all the three girls i.e. PW6, PW7 &
PW14 and he proved the same as Ex.PW3/A (that of prosecutrix
'S') Ex.PW3/B (that of prosecutrix 'G') and Ex.PW3/C (that of
prosecutrix 'SR'). He has not been cross examined on behalf of any
of the accused and therefore, it is evident that the accused do not
deny the correctness and truthfulness of these statements. PW6
has stated in her statement Ex.PW3/A also that accused Balram
had committed forcible intercourse with her twice in his house.
Prosecutrix 'G' (PW14) has stated in her statement u/s.164 Cr.PC
Ex.PW3/B that after accused Balram took them to his house in his
Maruti car, he took the prosecutrix 'S' to one room whereas she,
Kishan and prosecutrix 'SR' remained in another room and
thereafter accused Kishan committed forcible sexual intercourse
with her as well as prosecutrix 'SR'. PW7 i.e. prosecutrix 'SR' has
mentioned in her statement u/s.164 Cr.PC Ex.PW3/C that Monika's
husband Kishan, with the aid of Pooja, has been using girls for sex
trade and all of them used to divide the money earned from the
same. She also stated that Kishan had committed rape upon her




SC No.75/13.                                         Page 17 of 26
 as well as prosecutrix 'G' on 03.5.2012. She explained that first he
raped prosecutrix 'G' and thereafter he did the same with her. She
also stated that accused Balram had taken the prosecutrix 'S' to
some other room.
24.         As noted herein-above, the police machinery was set
into motion in this case on receipt of call in the police control room
from PW8 on 07.5.2012, which was forwarded to P.S. Dwarka
North and recorded there as DD No.15A. PW8 is an independent
witness and running a Mother Dairy milk booth no.16672 at Vikas
Vihar. He had seen PW6 sitting at a distance from his shop and
weeping and on her request, he made the call at telephone no.
100. According to his deposition, PW6 had told him and other
persons, who had gathered around her that she was kept confined
by one Monika in her room near Shani Bazar who intendd to force
her into prostitution. It is true that PW8 in his call to PCR had
mentioned about a quarrel at A-489, Sector-15, Dwarka, near
Mother Dairy. However, he has not been questioned at all as to
why he did make a call of quarrel when PW6 had told him
something else. It is for this reason that he has not been able to
explain why he did so.     I do not find anything in his testimony
which would discredit him. He seems to be a truthful and reliable
witness. From the deposition of PW2, it is established that the call
received from PW8 was recorded in the police station as DD No.
15A as Ex.PW2/A and same was marked to PW15. It is manifest
from the testimony of PW15 that he alongwith PSI Mahesh reached
the house no.A-489, Bharat Vihar, New Delhi, on receipt of DD No.
15A but did not find either the complainant or the assailant. They
met PW8, who told them that the girl on her behalf he had made




SC No.75/13.                                           Page 18 of 26
 call is present in House No.E-202, Bharat Vihar, New Delhi.
Accordingly, they reached the said house, found the three victim
girls 'G', 'SR' and 'S' and brought them to the police station.
25.          The FIR has been registered on the basis of statement
Ex.PW6/A of prosecutrix 'S' which has been already noted herein-
above. All the three victim girls were got medically examined in
DDU Hospital where they were examined by PW5. It may be noted
here that the prosecutrix 'G' had stated to PW5 that she has been
sexually assaulted by a person named Kishan on 03.5.2012.
Prosecutrix 'S' had told PW5 that she had been sexually assaulted
by a person named Balram. Prosecutrix 'SR' had told hr that she
has been sexually assaulted by a person named Kishan on
03.5.2012.
26.          The statement u/s.164 Cr.PC of all the three victim
girls were recorded by PW3 on 08.5.2012. The contents of these
statements in brief have already been mentioned herein-above.
27.          At this juncture, it is pertinent to mention here that the
three girls were recovered by PW15 on 07.5.2012 from house
no.E-202, Bharat Vihar, Sector-15, Dwarka. On the same day,
statement of prosecutrix 'S' was recorded in the police station and
FIR was registered at 5 p.m. PW5 had examined the three girls in
DDU Hospital on 08.5.2012 and on the same date, PW3 recorded
the statement of the three girls u/s.164 Cr.PC. PW7 and PW14
have stated to PW5 the doctor that they had been sexually
assaulted by accused Kishan. In their statement u/s.164 Cr.PC,
recorded by PW3 also, they have stated that they were raped by




SC No.75/13.                                            Page 19 of 26
 accused Kishan in the house of accused Balram and accused
Balram had taken the prosecutrix 'S' (PW6) to some other room
during the night.
28.         It pains to note here that PW7 & PW14 when called to
depose before this court, turned hostile and gave clean chit to all
the accused. From their statements to PW5 at the time of their
medical examination and their statements u/s.164 Cr.PC recorded
by PW3, it is manifest that they have been raped by accused
Kishan. However, it seems that before they could be called for
their testimony in this court, the accused wielded their power and
influence upon these two poor and unfortunate girls (PW7 & PW14)
and accordingly they did not depose anything against the accused.
29.         The scrutiny of the testimony of PW6 clearly reveals
that she was raped by accused Balram in his house. Even though
she was declared hostile by Ld. APP on certain points, it did not
effect the core spectrum of her testimony that she was raped by
accused Balram. She has remained firm in this regard in her cross
examination also conducted on behalf of the accused Monika as
well as accused Balram on 19.2.2013. When she was recalled for
further examination on 05.6.2013 after the arrest of accused
Kishan, she deposed in her cross examination that she alongwith
prosecutrix 'SR' and 'G' has slept in one room in the house of
accused Balram and the door of the room was bolted from inside
by 'G' and the same was opened by 'G' only in the morning. It was
sought to be argued by Ld. Counsel for the accused Balram that in
view of the said deposition of PW6, it is clear that there was no
occasion for accused Balram to rape her as she was sleeping




SC No.75/13.                                         Page 20 of 26
 alongwith other two girls 'G' and 'SR'. However, I feel unable to
accept the submissions of the Ld. Counsels. It seems that after
deposing before this court on 19.2.2013, the witness PW6 was also
approached by the accused and won over by them, which has
resulted in her hostile deposition dated 05.6.2013. Moreover, even
in this deposition, there is no specific statement of PW6 that she
was not raped by accused Balram. Even otherwise also, the
deposition of the prosecutrix that she was raped by the accused
Balram is sufficiently supported and corroborated by her own
statement to the doctor (PW5) and to the Ld. Magistrate u/s.164
Cr.PC Ex.PW3/A as well as by the statement of PW7 & PW14 to the
doctor (PW5) and to the Ld. Magistrate u/s.164 Cr.PC Ex.PW3/B
and Ex.PW3/C. In my opinion, it is established beyond reasonable
doubt that accused Balram had committed rape upon the
prosecutrix 'S'.
30.         Thus, offence u/s.376 IPC has established against
accused Balram, beyond any doubt. Moreover, Charge u/s.506 IPC
has remained to be proved against him.
31.         So far as role of accused Monika and Kishan is
concerned, I may say that the deposition of PW6 indicates beyond
doubt that they were instrumental in taking PW6, PW7 & PW14 to
the house of Balram where PW6 was raped by Balram. PW6 has
deposed that in the night, she alongwith Monika and prosecutrix
'G' went to Shani Chowk from where Monika returned home. Her
husband Kishan met them and took them to the house of his friend
where Balram was present and he committed intercourse with her
against her consent. Next morning, accused Kishan brought her




SC No.75/13.                                        Page 21 of 26
 and 'G' back to his place of residence and a fight ensued between
him and his wife Monika.
32.         Thus it is manifest that Monika, Kishan and Balram
were acting in concert with each other. It seems to be a
preplanned plot that Monika would bring the girls to Shani Chowk
and return home therefrom, then accused would meet them and
take them to the house of accused Balram where they would be
raped. No other reason appears from the material on record
including statements u/s.313 Cr.PC of the accused as to why would
accused Kishan take the girls to house of accused Balram for one
night.   Undoubtedly, accused Monika and accused Kishan have
facilitated and aided accused Balram in committing rape upon the
prosecutrix 'S'. Their acts are fully covered under clause 'Secondly'
and Explanation 2 of section 107 IPC. Thus both of them are liable
to be convicted u/s.109 IPC. However, it be noted that charge u/s.
109 IPC has not been framed against accused Kishan and hence
he cannot be convicted.
33.         Even though statements of PW7 and PW14 given to
PW5 at the time of their medical examination and their statements
u/s.164 Cr.PC recorded by PW3 clearly indicate that they were
raped by accused Kishan in the house of Balram, yet Kishan
cannot be held guilty merely on the basis of these statements
when neither PW7 nor PW14 has deposed anything in this regard
before this court during their testimony. Statements given to
doctor and to learned Magistrate do not qualify as substantive
evidence and hence conviction cannot be ordered on the basis of
those.
 34.         As a result of aforesaid discussion, accused Kishan and
accused Pooja are acquitted of all charges as no incriminating
evidence against them has come on record. Accused Balram is
acquitted of charge u/s.506 IPC. He is, however, convicted u/s.376
IPC. Accused Monika is convicted u/s.109 IPC.
35.         Accused Kishan has to be acquitted only for the reason
that PW7 and PW14, whom he had raped, did not depose against
him before this court. It appears that they succumbed to the
power and pressure (of money & muscle) wielded by the accused
and thus turned hostile. It is apparent that these three girls PW6,
PW7 and PW14 were brought from their native place only for sex
trade and for no other purpose. Forcing a girl into sex trade or
prostitution is the most demeaning and humiliating for her. She is
treated as an object (for sex) by her handler as well as by
customers. She is no longer treated as a human being and her
emotions, feelings etc. lose all their significance. She is just used
to satiate the sexual lust of the clients. The situation worsens to
such an extent that she feels it impossible to come out of this
murky affair, unless recovered by the police.
36.         In the present case, the police did a commendable job
in acting swiftly on the call of PW8 and recovering the three victim
girls. However, their efforts did not bear the desired fruit as PW7
and PW14 were won over by the accused before they could be
called upon for their testimony. Normally, the girls who are forced
into the flesh trade come off a poor and non descript family
background and are easy to be won over.            The job of their




SC No.75/13.                                           Page 23 of 26
 tormentors     becomes easy as there is no witness or victim
protection programme put in place by the court. The witnesses like
the victim girls in the instant case are most vulnerable and hence,
I consider, they should not have been released from the Nari
Niketan till they are examined in court.
37.          Turning of the witnesses hostile in courts is a matter of
great concern and this trend is increasing day by day. The whole
criminal trial is reduced to a mockery and justice become a
casualty. The High Court and the Supreme Court too had the
occasion to deal with this type of situation in many cases. The
latest on the subject is the judgment of the High Court in State
(GNCT of Delhi) vs. Sidhartha Vashisht @ Manu Sharma &
Ors., (2013) IX (Delhi) 293 and in para 99 of the report it has
been observed:
38.          In the aforesaid judgment, a slew of directions were
issued by the High Court for the Govt. but still no concrete step
appears to have been taken by the Govt. in this regard.
39.          I feel that, till any concrete witness protection policy is
put in place by the Govt., the unfortunate girls recovered from
brothels or any other place where they are forced into flesh trade,
shall be kept in Nari Niketan or at any other suitable place under
proper protection and far from the approach of their tormentors,
till their deposition is recorded in the court.
40.          I further consider that the duty of the State does not
end after recovery of unfortunate girls from brothels or the places
like those. These poor and traumatized girls need support of the
State for their rehabilitation. The Govt. has failed on this count
also as no such relief or rehabilitation programme has been
formulated by it. The girls recovered from brothels, who had been
pushed into flesh trade, find it difficult to start a life afresh and run
the risk of being again thrown into the same murky trade. I hope
and expect that after going through this judgment, the Govt.
would take necessary steps to frame a elaborate compensation
and rehabilitation programme for the unfortunate girls recovered
from the sex trade.
41.          This   court   would   be   failing   in   its   duty   if   no
compensation is ordered to be given to PW6. She has shown
exemplary courage in conveying her plight to PW8 who made a



SC No.75/13.                                                  Page 25 of 26
 call at telephone no.100. She did not yield to the money or muscle
power of the accused and testified against them before this court.
It is on account of her strong determination that the accused could
be apprehended and chargesheeted. Even then she was totally
ignored by the State as no step seems to have been taken to
ensure her rehabilitation so that she lives a life of dignity.
42.         Therefore, I direct the Chief Secretary, Govt. of NCT of
Delhi to pay a compensation of Rs.1.5 Lacs to the victim (PW6)
within a period of six weeks from today and to file a compliance
report.
43.         Copies of this judgment be sent to the Secretary,
Deptt. of Law & Justice, Govt. of India, the Chairman, Law
Commission of India and the Chief Secretary, Govt. of Delhi, for
their information and necessary action.
