               In the present case, charge has been framed against accused 

Vijay in respect of offence under Section 376 IPC on 03.03.12 with the 

allegations that on 28.10.2011 he took prosecutrix, aged 12 years old in 

the   jungle   near   Saidulajab   and   committed   rape   upon   her   against   her 

S.C No.07/12                                                                     1/12
                                              2

wishes and without her consent. 
2           Accused pleaded not guilty to said charge and claimed trial. 

3           To   prove   its   case,   prosecution   has   examined   11   witnesses. 

They are Gayatri (PW­1), Shri Mahinder(PW­2), Dr. Unnati (PW­3), HC 

Mahender   Singh   (PW­4),   Ms.   C.R.   Kujur   Ld.   M.M   (PW­5),   HC 

Dharmender (PW­6), Dr. Varnit (PW­7), Ct. Munna Lal (PW­8), W/Ct. 

Sunita (PW­9), Ms. Soren (PW­10) and W/ASI Gian Prabha (PW­11). 

4           PW­1 Gayatri has deposed that the prosecutrix is her cousin, 

who   was   residing   with   her.     On   28.10.11   she   left   the   house   to   bring 

chowmein from the market.  She came back at about 10:00 PM and told 

her that she was taken away by one Vijay towards the jungle area, where 

he removed her clothes and committed rape upon her.   She found her 

salwar torn.  Prosecutrix was crying and she was in pain.  She called her 

landlord, who informed the police and police arrived there. 

5           In  cross­examination by ld. Counsel  for accused,   PW­1 has 

deposed that she does not know the date of birth of prosecutrix.  She was 

residing with her for the past one year before the incident.   She knew 

accused  because he was her neighbour and he used to visit her premises.

6           PW­2   Mahender   is   the   landlord,   who   has   deposed   that   on 

29.10.11 he was at home, when he received a call from Gayatri, who told 

him that one Vijay had committed rape upon the prosecutrix.  He reached 

at the house of PW­1 Gayatri and found that prosecutrix was weeping and 


S.C No.07/12                                                                           2/12
                                          3

told him about the incident.  She told him that accused Vijay took her to 

jungle area on the pretext of giving chowmein and committed rape upon 

her.
7          PW­3 Dr. Unnati has proved the MLC of prosecutrix as Ex. 

PW3/A.       As   per   MLC,   on   examination,   patient   was   conscious,   well 

oriented.  There was no visible injury but there were cut marks present in 

her   right   middle   finger   dorsum.   Hymen   was   torn.     As   per   vaginal 

examination, vagina admitting one finger with ease, non­tender.  

8          PW­3 Dr. Unnati was not cross­examined by ld. Counsel for 

accused despite opportunity was given. 
9          PW­4 HC Mahender Singh is a formal witness.  He has proved 

DD No. 32A as Ex. PW4/A.
10         PW­5 Ms. C.R. Kujur, Metropolitan Magistrate has proved the 

proceedings U/S 164 Cr.P.C Ex. PW5/B, correctness of certificate Ex. 

PW5/C.  Copy of proceedings were also given to I.O vide his application 

Ex.PW5/D. 
11         PW­6 HC Dharmender has proved the FIR Ex. PW6/A. 

12         PW­7   Dr.   Varnit   has   proved   the   MLC   of   accused   as   Ex. 

PW7/A.  As per examination of accused, there was nothing to suggest that 

the person is incapable of performing sexual intercourse under normal 

circumstances.

got   accused   medically   examined   at   AIIMS   hospital   and   his   medical 

exhibits were handed over to I.O. vide memo Ex. PW8/A. 

14          PW­9 Constable Sunita has deposed that on 29.10.11 she got 

the prosecutrix medically examined at AIIMS hospital and her medical 

exhibits were handed over to I.O vide memo Ex. PW9/A.  

15          PW­9A Constable Bhushan   has deposed that on 29.11.11 he 

took the case property sealed with the seal of AIIMS and deposited the 

same with FSL, Rohini vide R.C No. 171/21/11.
16          PW­10 is prosecutrix.  She is the star witness of the case.  She 

has   deposed   that   on   the   day   of   incident,   she   visited   market   to   buy 

chowmein.  While she was coming back, accused Vijay followed her and 

told her that he could get the chowmein from some other place.  He took 

her to a jungle area and removed her clothes.  Thereafter, he committed 

rape upon her.  She went to her home and informed about the incident to 

her  Mausi.    The  landlord   was called, who called the police.   She has 

proved her statement to police as Ex. PW10/A.  Accused was arrested by 

the police from his house in her presence vide arrest memo Ex. PW10/B. 

She has proved the personal search memo of accused Ex. PW10/C and 

her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C Ex. PW10/A. 
17          In   cross­examination   by   ld.   Counsel   for   accused, 

PW­10/prosecutrix has denied that she was having love affair with the 


S.C No.07/12                                                                         4/12
                                          5

accused.  She has further deposed in her cross­examination that when she 

was coming from the place of incident, she told about the incident to two­

three persons, but they did not help her.
18        PW­11   ASI   Gyan   Prabha   is   the   investigating   officer   of   this 

case.  She has deposed that she recorded the statement of complainant Ex. 

PW10/A   and   got   her   medically   examined.     She   prepared   rukka   Ex. 

PW11/A and got FIR registered.  She has proved the medical exhibits of 

prosecutrix Ex. PW9/A.  She has also proved the arrest memo of accused 

Ex.   PW10/B,   personal   search   memo   of   accused   Ex.   PW10/C. 

Ossification test of prosecutrix was also conducted in which her age was 

determined as 14­15 years.  Exhibits were sent to FSL and she tendered 

the reports Ex. PW11/B and Ex. PW11/C.  
19        Statement   of   accused   U/S   313   Cr.P.C   has   been   recorded, 

wherein he has denied the allegations of prosecution.  He has stated that 

he is innocent and falsely implicated in the present case at the instance of 

complainant.   He has further stated that prosecutrix developed physical 

relations with him with her own free will but when her family members 

came to know about this, she has given false statement at the instance of 

her family members.  
20        Accused did not examine any witness in his defence. 

21        I have heard the arguments from ld. counsel for accused and Ld. 

Addl. P.P for State.

falsely implicated in the present case at the instance of family members of 

complainant.   Prosecutrix was having love affair with the accused.   He 

has further argued that mere fact that the prosecution has stated that she 

has been raped by accused, is not sufficient to establish that rape was 

committed upon the prosecutrix by accused.   
23         On the other hand, ld. Addl. PP has argued that prosecution has 

proved its case against accused beyond reasonable doubt.   Accused has 

committed   rape   upon   the   prosecutrix.     The   testimony   of   witnesses   is 

consistent and there is no discrepancy in their statements. 

24         I have considered submissions of both parties and have perused 

the record carefully.  
25         The  argument   of   ld.   counsel   for   accused   is   devoid   of   force. 

Rape has been defined U/S 375 of Indian Penal Code.  Punishment of rape 

has been laid down U/S 376 IPC.   A man is stated to have committed 

rape, except the case as mentioned in Section 375, as sexual intercourse 

with   a   woman   under   the   circumstances   falling   under   any   of   the   six 

descriptions mentioned therein.  To prove the act of rape, four ingredients 

are essential namely:

           3 That such a woman was not the wife of accused or if she      

S.C No.07/12                                                                        6/12
                                           7

              was his wife, she was under 15 years of age; and
           4 There was penetration.
26         In the present case, PW­10/prosecutrix is the star witness, who 

has   categorically   deposed   that   accused   committed   rape   upon   her   after 

taking her to jungle area.  After returning home, she told the incident to 

PW­1/Gayatri.     PW­1   has   categorically   deposed   that   prosecutrix   was 

living with her and on 28.10.11 prosecutrix had gone to market to bring 

chowmein.   Prosecutrix came back at 10 PM and told her that she was 

taken away by Vijay towards the jungle area and committed rape upon 

her. 
27          In State V. Asha Ram, 2006 Crl. L.J. 139, it has been held that 
"it is now well settled principle of law that conviction can be founded on  
the   testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   alone   unless   there   are   compelling  
reasons for  seeking corroboration.   The evidence of a prosecutrix is  
more reliable than that of an injured witness.   The testimony of the  
victim   of   sexual   assault   alone   to   convict   an   accused   where   her  
testimony inspires confidence and is found to be reliable.  It is also well  
settled principle of law that corroboration as a condition for judicial  
reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a requirement of law  
but a guidance of prudence under given circumstances.  The evidence  
of the prosecutrix is more reliable than that of an injured witness.  Even  
minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of  
the prosecutrix should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise  
reliable prosecution case." 
 In   Bharwada   Bhoginbhai   Hirjibhai   V.   State   of   Gujarat,   AIR 
1983 SC 753 it has been observed that " in the Indian setting, refusal to  
act on  the testimony of  a victim of sexual assault in the absence of  


S.C No.07/12                                                                     7/12
                                           8

corroboration  as  a  rule,  is  adding insult  to injury.   Why should the  
evidence of the girl or the woman who complains of rape or sexual  
molestation be viewed with the aid of spectacles fitted with lenses tinged  
with doubt, disbelief or suspicion?   It was further pointed out that on  
principle the evidence of a victim of sexual assault stands on par with  
evidence of an injured witness.  Just as a witness who has sustained an  
injury (which is not shown or believed to be self inflicted) is the best  
witness in the sense that he is least likely to exculpate the real offender,  
the  evidence  of a  victim  of a sex­offence is entitled to great  weight,  
absence of corroboration notwithstanding.   The aforesaid observation  
was made by this Court because of the following factors: (1) A girl or a  
woman in the tradition bound non­permissive society of India would be  
extremely reluctant even to admit that any incident which is likely to  
reflect on her chastity had ever occurred. (2) She would be conscious of  
the danger of being ostracized by the Society or being looked down by  
the society including by her own family members, relatives, friends, and  
neighbours. (3) She would have to brave the whole world (4) She would  
face the risk of losing the love and respect of her own husband and  
near   relatives,   and   of   her   matrimonial   home   and   happiness   being  
shattered.  (5) If she is unmarried, she would apprehend that it would  
be   difficult   to   secure   an   alliance   with   a   suitable   match   from   a  
respectable or as acceptable family.  (6) It would almost inevitably and  
almost invariably result in mental torture and suffering to herself.  (7)  
The fear of being taunted by others will always haunt her (8) She would  
feel   extremely   embarrassed   in   relating   the   incident   to   others   being  
overpowered by a feeling of shame on account of the upbringing in a  
tradition bound society whereby and large sex is taboo.  (9) The natural  
inclination would be to avoid giving publicity to the incident lest the  
family name and family honour is brought into controversy. (10)  The  
parents of an unmarried girl as also the husband and members of the  
husbands' family of a married woman, would also more often than not,  

S.C No.07/12                                                                     8/12
                                            9

want to avoid publicity on account of the fear of social stigma on the  
family name and family honour.   (11) The fear of the victim herself  
being considered to be promiscuous or in some way responsible for the  
incident   regardless   of   her   innocence.   (12)   The   reluctance   to   face  
interrogation by the investigating agency, to face the Court, to face the  
cross­examination   by   counsel   for   the   culprit,   and   the   risk   of   being  
disbelieved, act as a deterrent."
28         PW­1, Gayatri has deposed that prosecutrix told her that Vijay 

committed rape upon her.   The testimony of prosecutrix is corroborated 

with the medical evidence proved by PW­3 Dr. Unnati and the medical 

evidence is unrebutted and unchallenged as there is no cross­examination 

of PW­3 on behalf of accused.
29          It was held in  Gyan Chand, AIR 2001 SC 2075  by Hon'ble 
Supreme Court that  conviction for an offence of rape can be based on  
the sole testimony of the prosecutrix corroborated by medical evidence  
and other circumstances such as the report of chemical examination,  
etc.   If the same is found to be natural, trustworthy and worth being  
relied on.
30         In   the   present   case,   the   testimony   of   prosecutrix   is   well 

corroborated by the testimony of PW­1 Gayatri, PW­2 Mahender and also 

by medical evidence.   The testimony of prosecutrix inspires confidence 

and is trustworthy and reliable. 
31         It is now a well settled principle of law that conviction can be 

sustained on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix if it inspires confidence. 

A plethora of decisions by Hon'ble Supreme Court would show that once 


S.C No.07/12                                                                       9/12
                                           10

the statement of prosecutrix inspires confidence and is accepted by the 

court and such conviction can be based only on the solitary evidence of 

prosecutrix   and   no   corroboration   would   be   required   unless   there   are 

compelling reasons which necessitates  the courts for corroboration of her 

statement.   Corroboration of testimony of prosecutrix as a condition for 

judicial reliance is not a requirement of law but guidance of prudence 

under given facts and circumstances. 
32         In view of above discussion, I am of the considered view that 

prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt against accused 

Vijay   U/S   376   IPC.     Accordingly,   accused   Vijay   is   convicted   for   the 

offence U/S 376 IPC. 
33         Put up for arguments on the point of sentence on 19.12.2013.

Announced in the open court today.
12.12.2013
                                                        (Gulshan Kumar)
                                          Additional Sessions Judge­01(South)
                                                   Saket Courts, New Delhi. 

S.C No.07/12                                                                      10/12
                                                11

                      IN THE COURT OF SH.GULSHAN KUMAR
               ADDL. SESSIOS JUDGE­01 (SOUTH),SAKET COURTS


             S.C. No. 07/12
             ID No.02406 R0024022012
             State 
             Vs.
             Vijay
             son of Sh. Laxman Singh 
             R/o H.No. 331, Gali No.1,
             Saidulajab
             New Delhi. 
             FIR No.: 474/11
             PS: Mehrauli
             U/S 376 IPC
Date of Arguments: 20.12.13.
Date of pronouncement:20.12.13.

ORDER ON SENTENCE


                In the present case accused Vijay has been convicted in respect of 

offence U/S  376 IPC vide my separate judgment dated on 12.12.13.

2               I have heard arguments on the point of sentence from ld. counsels 

for accused/convict and ld. Addl. P. P for State.

3               Ld.   counsel   for   accused   Vijay   has   prayed   for   a   lenient   view   by 

submitting that accused/convict is a poor person.  He is 30 years old.  He is married. 

He  is having  three children.    He  has  old  aged   parents  and  he  is  the sole  bread 

earner of his family.   His family is living in a rented accommodation.   He is not a 

previous convict.  No other criminal case is pending against the accused/convict.

4               On the other hand, ld. Addl. P. P for State has prayed for imposition 

of maximum punishment upon the convict for the proved commission of offence.against the entire society.  It destroys the entire psychology of a woman and  
pushes her into deep emotional crisis.   It is only by her sheer till power that  
she rehabilitates herself in the society which when comes to know of the rape,  
looks down upon her in derision and contempt.   Rape is therefore, the most  
hated crime, which is a crime against  human rights and is also violative of  
victims   most   cherished   of   the   fundamental   rights,   namely,   right   to   life   in  
Article 21 of Constitution.  It is violence of the priave person of a woman."

6                In  the  present   case,   accused/convict   has   committed   rape   upon     a 

minor girl.  He does not deserve any leniency in the facts and circumstances of the 

case. Accordingly, accused/convict Vijay is sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for a 

period of seven years and a fine of Rs.10,000/­ in respect of offence U/S 376 IPC.  In 

default of payment of fine, convict will suffer simple imprisonment for two months.

7                Accused/convict will get the benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C.

8                 A copy of this order be also given to convict free of costs. 

