               In   brief,   the   case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   on   29.7.11,   Shri 

Chander  Bhan  lodged  the  missing  report of his  daughter  (prosecutrix)  aged 

about 16 years alleging that the prosecutrix is missing since 26.7.11. On the 

basis of this statement, the FIR has been registered.  On 8.8.11, the accused was 

apprehended   along   with   the   prosecutrix   at   bus   stand   Sangam   Vihar.     The 

prosecutrix and the accused were got medically examined from DDU Hospital. 



SC No. 46/13                                                                         Page 1of 13
                                                 2

The statement of the  prosecutrix  was got recorded U/s  164 Cr.PC.   In  that 

statement,   the   prosecutrix   has   stated   that   the   accused   has   taken   her   on   the 

pretext of taking to her village and has also physical relation with her against 

her wishes.    
2.              After investigation of the case, charge sheet has been filed U/s 

363/376 IPC. Charge U/s 363/376 IPC has been framed against the accused. 

The accused had pleaded not guilty to the charges. 
3.              In   order   to   prove   its   case,   the   prosecution   has   examined   18 

witnesses. Statement of the accused U/s 313 Cr. P.C. was recorded in which he 

had denied the case of the prosecution.  The accused has not led any evidence 

in his defence.
4.              I have heard the Ld. APP for the state and Ld. counsel for the 

accused and perused the evidence on record.   I have also perused the written 

arguments and the judgments relied upon by the accused. 

                PW1   H.C.   Charan   Singh   is   the   MHCM   and   has   proved   the 

relevant entries in the register No. 19 regarding the deposit of exhibits with him 

and handing over the same for depositing the same with FSL as Ex. PW1/A and 

Ex. PW1/B. 
                PW2 the prosecutrix aged 16 years has deposed that in the month 

of July, 2011 she had come along with her father, brother and bhabhi to Rajouri 

Garden, Delhi from her village Dutt Nagar.  On 26.7.11, her father had given 

beatings and thereafter she called the accused on his mobile phone and told him 

regarding   the   beatings.     The   accused   was   known   to   her   earlier   as   he   was 



SC No. 46/13                                                                         Page 2of 13
                                           3

running his shop in her native village, Dutt Nagar.  The accused asked her to 

accompain him as he would take her to the house of her another bhabhi living 

in village Dutt Nagar.  The accused took her from the house of her brother at 

Rajouri Garden and instead of taking to village Dutt Nagar, he took her to the 

house of one of his friends at Sangam Vihar, Delhi.   The accused introduced 

her to his friend that she was his wife.   She along with the accused stayed in 

that house for about 10 days.   After this, the accused told her that he would 

drop her to village Dutt Nagar, so she was taken by the accused to Railway 

station, where her two brothers Pradeep Kumar and Kuldeep along with one 

police  official reached  there  and  they  were apprehended.    The accused  had 

maintained physical relation with her against her will in the house of his friend 

during her stay with him for 10 days. Her statement Ex. PW2/A was recorded 

in the court.  
                  In cross examination, PW2 has deposed that she came to Delhi on 

12.7.11.  The accused also came to Delhi by the same train.   She has denied the 

suggestion that she tried to run away with the accused while they were in the 

village.   She had contacted the accused on 13.7.11 on telephone when they 

reached Delhi.   She had informed him on telephone that her father had scolded 

her and therefore she did not want to stay there with him in Delhi.  On that day, 

the accused had offered her to take her to her village.   On 26.7.11, she had 

talked with the accused on telephone for the first time.   She has denied the 

suggestion that her father had scolded her and gave beatings on 26.7.11 as he 

had seen her talking to the accused on telephone.  The accused has visited the 



SC No. 46/13                                                          Page 3of 13
                                               4

house of her brother in Delhi on 26.7.11 at about 3/3.30 p.m.  At that time, she 

along with her bhabhi was present in the house.   The accused did not stay for a 

long time and immediately she along with the accused left the house.  She had 

not   informed   her   bhabhi   when   she   left   with   the   accused.     Vol.   She   was 

sleeping.   She left the house along with the accused immediately as she was 

apprehending that her father would again beat her, if he saw her in the company 

of the accused.  They went by Metro.  After that they boarded the bus and went 

to Sangam Vihar, Delhi.  Lot of passengers were travelling in the metro and the 

bus.  She had not told anyone  that she had left home with the accused.  During 

her stay of ten days the accused has never misbeheaved with her.  She had not 

tried to leave the the house of friend of the accused.  Vol. She did not know the 

route of Delhi.   The house of the friend of the accused was having only one 

room and in this room, she, the accused, friend of the accused and wife and 

sister of friend of the accused were staying.  There were 4/5 other rooms in the 

same building in which tenants used to live.  When she left Sangam Vihar, she 

was wearing Nakab (Burka).  She has proved the greeting card  Ex. PW2/DA, 

letter Ex. PW2/DB and envelope Ex. PW2/DC.  She has sent the same to the 

accused  through her friend in the year 2002. Her brother Pradeep had got her 

admitted in the first class at village Sakipur UP.  She had studied in the school 

up to 4th  standard.   Thereafter she took the admission in 6th  standard in some 

other school.  Pradeep got recorded her date of birth in both the schools.  She 

do not know her date of birth.     She has denied the suggestion that she was 

aged   about   18   years   at   the   time   of   incident   and   that   she   had   physical 



SC No. 46/13                                                                      Page 4of 13
                                              5

relationship with the accused with her consent.            
               PW3 Ms. Shivali Sharma, Ld. MM has proved the statement of 

the prosecutrix as Ex. PW2/A and her certificate is Ex. PW3/A. 

               PW4 Dr. Alok has deposed that on 8.8.11, he has examined the 

prosecutrix     vide   MLC   Ex.   PW4/A   and   referred   the   prosecutrix   to 

Gynecological department.   
               PW5 Shri Sunil Sharma has deposed that he know the father of 

the prosecutrix. About one year ago, he had given one SIM card of the mobile 

phone to Shri Chander Bhan on his ID Proof. 
               PW6 Shri Chander Bhan, father of the prosecutrix has deposed 

that on 26.7.11,  the prosecutrix was aged about 15 years and she was alone in 

the house at Rajouri Garden.  When she came back at about 3­4 p.m., he did not 

find the prosecutrix in the house.  They searched for the prosecutrix and lodged 

the missing report of the prosecutrix with the police. 

               In cross examination, PW6 has deposed that he had admitted the 

prosecutrix   in   the   Primary   school   at   Ghonda   UP.     Pradeep   had   got   the 

prosecutrix admitted in the primary school. He had not given any documentary 

proof regarding the date of birth of the prosecutrix when she was admitted in 

the primary school.     He has denied the suggestion that the prosecutrix was 

brought from the village to Delhi as she was having friendship with the accused 

in the village.  He has scolded the prosecutrix on 26.7.11 on account of some 

household   work.     He   has   denied   the   suggestion   that   he   had   scolded   the 

prosecutrix on 26.7.11 when he noticed that she was talking on telephone with 



SC No. 46/13                                                                   Page 5of 13
                                                6

the accused.  She has denied the suggestion that the prosecutrix wants to marry 

with the accused. 
                PW7 Shri Pradeep Kumar, brother of the prosecutrix has deposed 

that his father has lodged the missing report of the prosecutrix with the police. 

                In cross examination, PW7 has deposed that he did not know as to 

who had got the prosecutrix admitted in the first class in the school.   He is ten 

years elder to the prosecutrix.  His date of birth is 28.12.1982.  However, the 

date   of   birth   of   the   prosecutrix   is   15.12.96.     He   do   not   know   who   had 

accompanied the prosecutrix for her admission in 6th class. 

                PW8   Dr.   Namita   Gupta   has   deposed   that   on   8.8.11,     she   has 

examined   the   prosecutrix,   as   she   was   referred   to   her   for   Gynecological 

examination, vide MLC Ex. PW8/A. 
                PW9 Shri Raj Kumar Mishra, Principal of Vipin Bihari Shashi 

Bhushan Adarsh Girls Inter College, Vishnupur, Nawab Ganj Gonda UP has 

deposed that as per school record,  the prosecutrix took admission in the school 

on 25.7.07.  The transfer certificate is Ex. PW9/A.  As per school record, the 

date of birth of the prosecutrix was 16.8.1996. The certificate mark A is a fake 

document.  He has proved the progress report of the prosecutrix is Ex. PW9/C. 

                PW10   Shri   Rajiv   Ranjan,   Nodal   Officer   from   TATA   Tele 

Services   has   proved   the   mobile   record   of   phone   No.   9250934414   as   Ex. 

PW10/A to Ex. PW10/C and the ID chart shows the location of the mobile 

phone as Ex. PW10/E. 
                PW11 Shri Hazi Usman has deposed that his friend Hazi Mohram 



SC No. 46/13                                                                       Page 6of 13
                                              7

Ali is residing in front of his house at Sangam Vihar and he has asked him to 

look after his house.  This house was given by him on rent to one Sarafraj.  The 

accused along with the girl came to that house where Sarafraj was living.   The 

accused along with that girl lived in that house with Sarafraj for about 8/10 

days. 
               PW12 Ct. Sushma has taken the prosecutrix to DDU Hospital for 

her medical examination. 
               PW13 Ct. Panna Lal has taken the accused to DDU Hospital for 

his medical examination. 
               PW14   Dr.   Manish   Jakhar   has   deposed   that   on   8.8.11,   he   has 

examined the accused vide MLC Ex. PW14/A and he has opined that there was 

nothing to suggest that the accused cannot perform sexual act. 

               PW15   ASI   Jai   Parkash   has   proved   the   DD   No.   43­A   as   Ex. 

PW15/A and the FIR as Ex. PW15/B. 
               PW16 Ct. Parmod has deposed that on 8.8.11, the accused was 

brought  in the DDU Hospital for his medical examination. 

               PW18   SI   Govind   Singh   has   deposed   that   on   29.7.11,   the 

investigation of this case was handed over to him.   During investigation CDR 

was collected and it was revealed that the mobile No. 9250934414 was used by 

the   prosecutrix   frequently   on   9654278641.     On   the   basis   of   telephone 

conversation and CDR, they came to know about the expected location of the 

accused and the prosecutrix.  They went to Sangam Vihar and the accused and 

prosecutrix were apprehended from the bus stand of Sangam Vihar.  



SC No. 46/13                                                                   Page 7of 13
                                                  8

                 PW17   SI   Sumitra   Sharma   has   deposed   that   on   8.8.11,   the 

investigation   of   this   case   was   handed   over   to   her.   The   prosecutrix   and   the 

accused  were  taken  to  the  hospital  for  their  medical examination.    She  has 

arrested the accused vide memo Ex. PW13/B.  The statement of the prosecutrix 

was got recorded U/s 164 Cr.PC.  The exhibits of the case were sent to FSL and 

he has proved the site plan as Ex. PW17/C and has collected the FSL result 

which are Ex. PX and PY.  
5.               Ld. counsel for the accused has argued that the accused has been 

falsely implicated in the case.   The prosecutrix was in love with the accused 

and has gone with the accused with her own free consent.   The age of the 

prosecutrix was more than 18 years on the date of alleged incident.  There is no 

evidence on record to prove that the accused has kidnapped the prosecutrix and 

has raped the prosecutrix.   On these grounds, it is prayed that the accused be 

acquitted.   
                 On the other hand, Ld. APP has argued that from the evidence on 

record, the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt against the 

accused. 
6.               The case of the prosecution is that on the date of alleged incident 

i.e. 26.7.11, the prosecutrix was aged about 16 years.  PW2, the prosecutrix has 

been examined in the court on 10.7.12 and has deposed her age as 16 years and 

that   her   brother   Pradeep   had   got   her   admitted   in   the   first   class   at   Village 

Sakipur, UP.  Pradeep got recorded her date of birth in the school.  She do not 

know her date of birth.  

SC No. 46/13                                                                           Page 8of 13
                                               9

                Pradeep has been examined as PW7.  He has deposed that he do 

not know who got the prosecutrix admitted in the first class.  The date of birth 

of the prosecutrix is 15.12.1996.   His date of birth is 28.12.1982.   He is 10 

years elder to the prosecutrix. 
                PW6   Shri   Chander   Bhan,   the   father   of   the   prosecutrix   has 

deposed that on 26.7.11, the prosecutrix was aged about 15 years.  

                PW9 Shri Raj Kumar Mishra who is the Principal of the school 

has deposed that the prosecutrix took the admission in their school on 25.7.07 

and as per the school record, the date of birth of the prosecutrix is 16.8.1996. 

He has also deposed that the document 'mark A' which is certificate alleged to 

be issued on behalf of the Head Master of the school is fake document.   The 

document 'mark A' showing the date of the prosecutrix as 15.12.96, has been 

handed over by the father of the prosecutrix to the police.   

                In my view, the school record does not show correct date of birth 

of the prosecutrix as she has deposed that her date of birth has been mentioned 

in the school record by PW7, but PW7 has deposed that he do not know who 

had got her admitted in the school. He has also deposed that the date of birth of 

the prosecutrix is 15.12.1996 but as per the school record, it is 16.8.96. 

                The evidence of PW7 also shows that the prosecutrix has been 

born    in  the  year  1992  as he has  deposed  that he is  ten  years  elder  to  the 

prosecutrix and has deposed his date of birth as 28.12.82.  

                The prosecutrix has deposed that she do not remember her date of 

birth   but   has   also   deposed   that   greeting   card   Ex.   PW2/DA   and   letter   Ex. 



SC No. 46/13                                                                      Page 9of 13
                                                  10

PW2/DB has been sent by her to the accused through her friend in the year 

2002.  If the date of birth of the prosecutrix is taken as 1996 then  in the year 

2002,   the   age   of   the   prosecutrix   comes   to   be   6   years.     Perusal   of   the   Ex. 

PW2/DA and Ex. PW2/DB shows that a girl of six years does not achieve such 

maturity to write such documents.  
                 In view of the above discussions, I am of the opinion that the 

prosecution has failed to prove that the prosecutrix was aged about 16 years on 

the date of alleged commission of offence.   However, from the testimony of 

PW7, it is proved that the prosecutrix was more than 18 years on the date of 

alleged commission of offence.
6.               PW2 has deposed that on 26.7.11, her father had given beatings 

and thereafter she called the accused. The accused asked her to accompain him 

as he would take her to the house of her another bhabhi living in village Dutt 

Nagar.   The accused instead of taking to village Dutt Nagar   took her to the 

house of one of his friends at Sangam Vihar, Delhi.  She along with the accused 

stayed in that house for about 10 days.  The accused had maintained physical 

relation with her against her will in that house. PW2 has denied the suggestion 

of  the  accused  that the   accused   has  physical relationship   with   her  with   her 

consent. 
                 It has been observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in AIR 2004 

Supreme Court 1497 as follows:
                          "It is well settled  that a prosecutrix  complaining of  

        having been a victim of the offence of rape is not an accomplice  



SC No. 46/13                                                                          Page 10of 13
                                              11

      after the crime. There is no rule of law that her testimony cannot be  

      acted without corroboration in material particulars. She stands at a  

      higher pedestal than an injured witness. In the latter case, there is  

      injury on the physical form while in the former it is both physical as  

      well as psychological and emotional. However, if the Court of facts  

      finds it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix on its face  

      value, it may search for evidence, direct or circumstantial, which  

      would   lend   assurance   to   her   testimony.   Assurance,   short   of  

      corroboration as understood in the context of an accomplice would  

      suffice."
               It has been observed by Hon'ble Supreme Court in 2005 VIII AD 

(S.C.) 328 as follows:

               The defence of the accused is that PW2 has physical relation with 

the accused with her consent.   PW2 has been cross examined by the accused 

but no material has been come on record to support his defence.  The accused 

has also not led any  evidence in his defence.   The testimony of PW2 is reliable 

and inspire confidence to prove the fact that the accused has committed rape 


SC No. 46/13                                                                     Page 12of 13
                                         13

with her. 
7.             In view of the above discussions, as the prosecution has failed to 

prove that the prosecutrix was below 18 years of age on the date of incident, so 

no offence U/s 363 IPC   stands proved against the accused.   However, the 

prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt against the accused 

U/s 376 IPC.  Accordingly, the accused is convicted U/s 376 IPC. 