              The facts in brief of the prosecution case are
that during the period from March 2009 to 27.11.2009 at
unknown times at Mukherjee Nagar, Delhi, accused Jatin
Gupta committed rape on the prosecutrix _______X______
forcibly against her will after administering some material
in her cold drink and when she confronted him, he assured
her to marry with her and thereafter he committed sexual
intercourse with her several times on the pretext that he
would    marry    her.   Consequently,           prosecutrix     became


SC No.24/13              State vs. Jatin Gupta                 Page 1 of 27
 pregnant. Accused took her at Hans Charitable Hospital,
GTB Baba Banda Singh marg on 19.11.2009 and he got the
child miscarried and that miscarriage of child was not in
good faith for the purpose of saving of life of the
prosecutrix. When on 24.11.2009 the accused refused to
marry her she reported the matter to the police vide her
complaint, on which ASI Tejwati recorded endorsement and
got the FIR No. 521 dated 27.11.2009 u/s 376/312 IPC
recorded against the accused. Accused Jatin Gupta was
arrested in the night of 28.11.2009. His arrest memo and
personal search memo were prepared. He was interrogated
and his disclosure statement was recorded. Prosecutrix and
accused both were taken to GTB Hospital where both of
them were medically examined vide separate MLC. Doctor
took samples of vaginal smear, pubic hair, etc., besides her
panty and handed over to ASI Tejwati. Samples of blood,
etc. of accused were also taken into possession, besides
taking her underwear in possession. These were handed
over to ASI Raghuraj Singh, IO, who seized these articles
and deposited the same in police malkhana. Subsequently,
these were sent to FSL for testing. IO also prepared the site
plan and recorded the statements of witnesses. After
completion of investigation, IO filed a charge sheet against
the accused for his trial for the offences punishable u/s
376/312 IPC.
 2.            Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate after supplying of
copies of charge sheet and documents to the accused
committed this case to the court of sessions.
3.            Ld. District Judge/ASJ I/C NE District, vide his
order dated 16.10.2010 opined that prima facie case for
framing of charge against accused for the offences
punishable u/s 376/312 IPC was made out. Therefore,
charge against the accused for his trial for the said
offences was framed and read over to him in vernacular
language. He pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
4.            The prosecution, in order to prove its case
examined Dr. Juhi Srivastav, MS Gynae & Obst., Bhai
Parmanand Colony, Kingsway Camp as PW1; HC Yashvir as
PW2; Ct. Hawa Singh as PW3; Prosecutrix ________X_______
as PW4; Smt. ______Y______ as PW5; Dr. Sumit, Junior
Specialist, Lok Nayak Hospital as PW6; Sh. Ram Nath,
Receptionist,     Hans   Charitable      Hospital,   Baba   Banda
Bahadur Marg as PW7; ASI Raghuraj Singh as PW8; and ASI
Tejwati as PW9.
5.            Vide   order   No.20/372-512/F.3.(4)/ASJ/01/2013
dated 04.01.2013, on constitution of Special Fast Track

SC No.24/13              State vs. Jatin Gupta         Page 3 of 27
 Courts for trial of sexual offences, Hon'ble District &
Sessions Judge, transferred this case to this court.
6.            After closing of prosecution evidence statement
of the accused u/s 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
here in after referred to as the Code was recorded. All the
material and incriminating evidence was put to him.
Accused admitted that PW5 ______Y______ was (jethani) of
his bua (father's sister) and that he was on visiting terms
at the house of PW4 and PW5. He also admitted that PW7
receptionist of Hans Charitable Hospital proved form
EX.PW7/A and EX.PW7/B and entry of OT register as
EX.PW7/C and that MTP on prosecutrix was done under GA
and prosecutrix was discharged within two hours in fit
condition and that he was correctly identified by PW1 Dr.
Juhi   Srivastav     and     that     in    intervening   night      of
27/28.11.2009 he was arrested by PW9 Tejwati and
prepared his arrest memo and personal search memo
EX.PW8/C and that he and prosecutrix were taken to GTB
hospital for medical examination and that doctor proved
her MLC EX.PW9/C and that in his MLC EX.PW6/A doctor
opined that there was nothing to suggest that he was not
capable of doing sexual act and that his sample vide memo
EX.PW8/D were taken. He did not dispute that in the FSL
report EX.P1 semen on his underwear of "AB" Group was

SC No.24/13                State vs. Jatin Gupta          Page 4 of 27
 detected and that witnesses identified him in the court
correctly and that prosecutrix identified her panty as EX.P1
correctly. He denied rest of the evidence and pleaded that
under the misguidance of maternal uncle who is an
Advocate, prosecutrix filed a false complaint against him.
He further pleaded that prosecutrix was having her affairs
with a boy Sonu. Initially, a complaint against Sonu was
filed but subsequently it was withdrawn. Prosecutrix and
her mother falsely blamed him to save their honour.
Prosecutrix is his cousin sister in relation. Accused opted
not to lead any D.E.
7.            After closing of evidence by both the parties, I
have heard arguments addressed by Ld. Additional Public
Prosecutor for the State and Ld. Defence Counsels for
accused and perused file including written arguments.
8.            It has been argued by Ld. Defence Counsel that
prosecutrix was major. She had been visiting the accused
of her own and the accused has not committed any wrong
with her and he is entitled for acquittal.
9.            In support of his arguments he relied on a case
Uday v. State of Karnataka, AIR 2003 SC 163: 2003 AIR
SCW 1035. In that case the prosecutrix was a grown up girl

SC No.24/13              State vs. Jatin Gupta      Page 5 of 27
 studying in a college. She was deeply in love with the
accused appellant. She was, however, aware of the fact
that since they belonged to different castes, marriage was
not possible. In any event the proposal for their marriage
was bound to be seriously opposed by their family
members. She admits having told so to the appellant when
he proposed to her the first time. She had sufficient
intelligence to understand the significance and moral
quality of the act she was consenting to. That is why she
kept it a secret as long as she could. Despite this, she did
not resist the overtures of the appellant, and in fact
succumbed to it. She thus freely exercised a choice
between resistance and assent. The Apex Court held that:
 10.           In a case Anthony alias Bakthavatsalu, AIR 1960
Mad 308, it was observed:
11.           Ld. Defence Counsel further relied on a case
Jayanti Rani Panda v. State of West Bengal, 1984 Cri LJ
1535 (Cal). In that case the accused was a teacher of the
local village school and used to visit the residence of the
prosecutrix. One day during the absence of the parents of
the prosecutrix he expressed his love for her and his desire
to marry her. The prosecutrix was also willing and the
accused promised to marry her once he obtained the
consent of his parents. Acting on such assurance the
prosecutrix started cohabiting with the accused and this
continued for several months during which period the
accused spent several nights with her. Eventually when she
conceived and insisted that the marriage should be
performed as quickly as possible, the accused suggested
an abortion and agreed to marry her later. Since the
proposal was not acceptable to the prosecutrix, the
accused disowned the promise and stopped visiting her

SC No.24/13              State vs. Jatin Gupta      Page 7 of 27
 house. A Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court noticed
the provisions of S.90 of the Indian Penal Code and
concluded:-
12.           On the other hand, it has been argued by Ld.
Additional Public Prosecutor for the State that prosecution
witnesses have proved case of the prosecution beyond the
reasonable suspicion and doubt and accused is liable to be
convicted. She also relied on a case, State v. Jai Hind, 2012
VI AD (Delhi) 170 wherein it was held by Delhi High Court
that:
13.           On   perusal    of    the    file,   scrutinizing   and
evaluating the evidence on record and on considering the
arguments, I come to the conclusion that prosecution has
successfully proved its case against accused. The reasons

SC No.24/13               State vs. Jatin Gupta           Page 9 of 27
 which support my decision are firstly, that statement of
prosecutrix is found consistent, reliable and trustworthy.
Prosecutrix as PW4 deposed that she knew the accused
Jatin Gupta present in the court and she met him at the
time of wedding of her cousin brother. Thereafter, he
started visiting her house and since March 2009 he started
talking to her on phone. At that time she was studying in
12th standard. In March 2009 he called her on telephone to
come at Mehfil Restaurant. Accused gave order for cold
drink and chowmin. After drinking cold drink, she started
feeling giddiness. She repeatedly requested accused to
take her back to her house but he asked her to accompany
him at rented accommodation at Mukherjee Nagar. As she
was not feeling well therefore, she went with him to
Mukherjee Nagar. Accused started teasing her to which she
protested. Thereafter, she became unconscious. When she
regained consciousness she found that she had been
raped. She inquired from accused as to what he did with
her. He told her that he would marry her. Thereafter, he
kept on calling her on telephone to come at Mukharjee
Nagar and used to tell her that he would marry her. He
kept on committing rape upon her at Mukharjee Nagar. She
became pregnant. She asked him to marry her then he told
her that first of all she should abort the child and then only
he would talk about marriage. He called her at Bhajanpura

SC No.24/13            State vs. Jatin Gupta       Page 10 of 27
 and from there he took her to Hans Hospital despite her
protest as she did not want to abort the child. He got the
abortion done. The abortion was got done by Dr. Juhi. Till
noon 24.11.2009 he kept on promising her to marry her
and thereafter he declined to marry her. Thereafter, she
went to the house of his parents at Burari and met her
mother who refused to get him marry with her. Then she
went to PS Bhajanpura and lodged her complaint Ex.PW4/A
which were signed by her at point A. The said complaint
was written in her own handwriting. Thereafter, she was
taken to GTB Hospital where she consented for medical
examination and she also told history to the doctor. The
doctor took her thumb impression on MLC. Her underwear
was also taken into possession by doctor. She further
stated that she was also called by the name Arti. In cross
examination nothing could come out which could create
reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt about the
genuineness of her testimony. However, she admitted that
she was distantly related to accused as her taiji (her
father's elder brother's wife) was bua (father's sister) of
accused Jatin. It was also admitted by her that she told to
the doctor that she was having affairs with accused Jatin
and that she was in sexual relation with the accused with
her consent.
 14.           Secondly,   the    testimony        of   PW1    Dr.    Juhi
Srivastava     supported the testimony of prosecutrix. She,
inter alia, stated that in the last week of October, 2009 she
was running a clinic at main road, opposite Bus Stop,
Kingsway Camp. On that day one __X__w/o Jatin Gupta
came to her clinic and told her that she was pregnant and
asked for MTP. Pregnancy test was conducted and it was
found positive. She advised _____X____ for ultrasound which
was done on 30.10.2009 at a Centre situated at Shahdara.
Report suggested that she was having early pregnancy of
five weeks. On 09.11.2009 _____X____ and her husband
Jatin Gupta came to her clinic with ultrasound report. She
advised _____X____ to continue with her pregnancy but she
stated that she was studying and she did not want to
continue with the pregnancy. When both husband and wife
insisted that they did not want to continue with the
pregnancy and wanted the termination of the pregnancy
then she advised her to get Hb and Gp. RH and to get
admitted in Hans Charitable Hospital next morning for MTP
under GA. On 19.11.2009 the patient reported to her clinic
at 10 a.m. and she referred her to Hans Charitable Hospital
as she was not having facility at her clinic. Couple reported
at reception on that date at 10:30 a.m. where husband
Jatin Gupta signed the consent form at point A. She
identified signatures of Jatin Gupta on the consent form.
 __X__ was sent to Laboratory for her blood test and Mr.
Saxena, the Anesthetist was then informed for the MTP to
be conducted at 2 p.m. After her clinic, MTP was finally
conducted at 2:30 p.m. Before that Dr. Saxena also asked
the patient about her willingness and she also gave her
consent and that was also attested by Dr. Ravi Saxena and
thereafter, MTP was done under GA and under full Aseptic
precaution and patient was finally discharged within two
hours in fit condition. She advised patient as well as Jatin
Gupta not to terminate the pregnancy. She proved her
advised as Ex.PW1/A. She also proved a letter given to IO
as PW1/B. PW1 Dr. Juhi Srivastava was not cross examined.
Thus her testimony has not been challenged. Rather in his
statement recorded u/s 313 of the Code, accused admitted
that he accompanied the prosecutrix in said clinic and
signed the consent form and Dr. Juhi Srivastava also
identified him correctly. This has proved that accused
presented himself before PW1 Dr. Juhi as husband of the
prosecutrix and signed the consent form in that capacity
which has further strengthened the testimony of the
prosecutrix that it was the accused who performed sexual
intercourse   with   her   and     due     to   repeated   sexual
intercourse she became pregnant and at his instance her
pregnancy was terminated.
 15.           Thirdly, MLC Ex.PW9/C which was admitted as
correct by Ld. Defence Counsel, has further proved that
hymen of the prosecutrix was found raptured. It has also
been mentioned therein that she was in physical relation
with accused Jatin Gupta. Admission of this document has
further established that it was the accused Jatin Gupta who
was having physical relation with the prosecutrix.
16.           Fourthly, testimonies of other witnesses also
corroborated prosecution case. For example, PW6 Dr. Sumit
who medically examined the accused Jatin Gupta vide MLC
Ex.PW6/A, inter alia, stated besides, proving the MLC as
Ex.PW6/A, that after examination of the accused he found
that there was nothing to suggest that Jatin Gupta was not
capable of sexual intercourse/sexual act. PW6 was also not
cross   examined.     Thus,   his   testimony   also   remained
unchallenged. This has proved that accused was capable of
committing rape on the prosecutrix.
17.           PW5 deposed that she has three children, one
son and two daughters, namely Shraddha and ___X___.
___X___ is also called ___X___. At the time of incident,
___X___ was studying in 12th standard. She knew accused
Jatin Gupta as he was nephew of her jethani (her husband's
elder brother's wife). When son of her Jeth got married,

SC No.24/13             State vs. Jatin Gupta          Page 14 of 27
 thereafter,    accused   started      visiting   her   house.    Her
daughter ___X___ started remaining nervous. She inquired
from her and then she told that she had undergone
abortion as accused committed rape upon her on the
pretext that he would marry her and that she need not tell
anybody about the same and that accused himself got the
abortion done. She came to know these facts in November,
2009. On coming to know these facts, she went to the
house of Jatin Gupta and talked to his mother but his
mother as well as accused declined and accused even
went to an extent of denying the incident. Thereafter, she
went to PS alongwith her daughter and lodged the
complaint. Her daughter was also taken to GTB Hospital for
medical examination.
18.           PW8, inter-alia, deposed that on 24.11.2009 he
was posted in PS Bhajanpura. On that date ______X______
alongwith her mother came in the PS and gave a written
complaint. Since the incident mentioned in the complaint
was of Mukherjee Nagar area he sent a Constable with the
complainant to PS Mukherjee Nagar and daily diary was
recorded to this effect. He proved copy of DD as Ex.PW8/A.
On 27.11.2009, that complaint was again received back to
his PS from PS Mukherjee Nagar. Both complainant as well
as accused also appeared in P.S. As it was a rape case, lady

SC No.24/13              State vs. Jatin Gupta           Page 15 of 27
 ASI Tejwati was called by the senior police official and
handed over the complaint to ASI Tejwati and she got the
FIR registered. On the intervening night of 27 and
28.11.2009, accused was arrested by ASI Tejwati around
12 'O' clock midnight and his arrest memo and personal
search memo Ex.PW8/B and Ex.PW8/C were prepared and
they signed by him as a witness. He took the accused to
GTB Hospital and where his MLC was prepared. Doctor
handed over a pullinda which contained the underwear of
the accused, blood sample alongwith sample seal and he
handed over the articles to ASI Tejwati vide seizure memo
Ex. PW8/D. ___X___ had also accompanied her in an auto
rikshaw to GTB Hospital alongwith lady Ct. and got her
medically examined. Parcels were prepared concerning
medical examination of ___X___ and these were brought to
PS and these were handed over to ASI Tejwati which were
seized vide memo Ex.PW8/E. ASI Tejwati had also recorded
statement Ex.PW8/F of the            accused. She   also took
complainant to C-2, Yamuna Vihar at Mehfil Restaurant and
site plan Ex.PW8/G was prepared.
19.           PW9,   ASI Tejwati on this aspect regarding
investigation of the case deposed that on 27.11.2009, she
was posted at PS Gokalpuri. On that day on receiving a call
from the ACP Rajender Sagar, she arrived at PS Bhajanpura

SC No.24/13             State vs. Jatin Gupta       Page 16 of 27
 where ______X______ alongwith her mother ______Y______,
accused Jatin Gupta were present. ASI Raghuraj was also
present there. She made endorsement Ex.PW9/A and got
the FIR No. 521/09 Ex.PW9/B recorded against the accused.
Accused was interrogated and his disclosure statement
Ex.PW8/F was prepared. He was also arrested and arrest
memo Ex.PW8/B and personal search memo Ex.PW8/C
were    prepared.    Complainant       and       accused   were     got
medically examined. The sealed parcels were deposited in
the malkhana in intact condition. Statement of Dr. Juhi
Srivastava u/s 161 Cr. P.C. was recorded. Parcels were sent
to FSL and result Ex.P-1 was collected and after completion
of investigation she prepared the challan and filed the
same in the court.
20.           PW2   is   MHCM        who         deposed   regarding
depositing of exhibits in the malkhana vide serial No.2740.
On 11.12.09 sealed pullandas containing the exhibits with
two sample seals were deposited in FSL Rohini vide RC No.
101/21. On 17.03.11 the reports from FSL were received.
He proved the relevant entries as Ex.PW2/A and Ex.PW2/B.
21.           PW3 who took the samples from PS to FSL also
supported his statement. All these witnesses further
supported the prosecution case. On careful examination of

SC No.24/13              State vs. Jatin Gupta             Page 17 of 27
 their cross examination, I do not find any point or material
which may create any reasonable suspicion or shadow of
doubt about the truthfulness of their testimonies.
22.           Fifthly, the arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel
that non examination of any witness from PS Mukherjee
Nagar has created doubt about the               truthfulness of
prosecution case is not convincing. It was the discretion of
the IO to decide about the necessity of witnesses to be
examined and to be produced before the court for proving
the case. Non examination of any witness from PS
Mukherjee Nagar has neither created any reasonable
suspicion nor any shadow of doubt in the truthfulness of
the prosecution case. Resultantly, it will not provide any
benefit to the accused.
23.           Sixthly, the arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel
that statement of prosecutrix that something unpleasant
able/un-wholesome or intoxicating substance was not
mixed with the eatable is not convincing. I have gone
through the entire cross examination of prosecutrix where
she specifically stated that after eating the chowmin and
drinking cold drink, she started feeling giddiness. There
was no suggestion to the witness that she did not go to the
Mehfil Restaurant or the accused did not order for chowmin

SC No.24/13             State vs. Jatin Gupta        Page 18 of 27
 and cold drink or she did not ate chowmin and cold drink.
Thus, this arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel will not
provide any benefit to the accused.
24.           Seventhly, the principles of law laid down in
Uday v. State of Karnataka, (supra), will not provide any
benefit to the accused as facts of that case and present
case are quiet different. In that case the prosecutrix who
was an adult was moving with the accused with her own
volition and she consented for sexual intercourse but in the
present case sexual intercourse with prosecutrix was
committed after giving her something intoxicating in the
cold drink and chowmin.
25.           The principles of law laid down in case Jayanti
Rani Panda v. State of West Bengal, (supra), will not
provide any benefit to the accused because facts of that
case and present case are entirely different. Accused
himself took a defence that prosecutrix was his cousin
sister. Thus, he himself was aware that there was no
possibility of their marriage. He even then kept on assuring
the prosecutrix to marry her and ultimately refused the
same.
26.           Eighthly, the arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel

SC No.24/13              State vs. Jatin Gupta     Page 19 of 27
 to the effect that accused and prosecutrix were sister and
brother and they were in such a relationship where
marriage is prohibited is not convincing as that is not the
reason to ipso facto bar to commit sexual assault on a
female. Conversely, sexual assault by a person in such
relationship is more serious than the assault by strangers
as it is the duty of that relative to protect a female and
when she is assaulted by such person who is supposed to
help her, it is more serious and dangerous.
27.           Ninethly, the arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel
that prosecutrix had admitted before the doctor that she
had sexual relationship with accused with her consent and
she had gone for abortion on her own volition and got
pregnancy terminated on the pretext that he wanted to
study will not provide any benefit to the accused as
accused has categorically denied of any sexual relationship
with the prosecutrix or compelling the prosecutrix to
terminate the pregnancy. Conversely, the evidence on
record has established that not only he had repeatedly
sexually assaulted the prosecutrix by performing repeated
sexual intercourse but also he compelled her to terminate
the pregnancy.
28.           Tenthly, arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel that

SC No.24/13              State vs. Jatin Gupta    Page 20 of 27
 PW1 Dr. Juhi and PW7 Sh. Ram Nath did not support the
prosecution case is not convincing. I find that they
supported the prosecution case and not only proved that
prosecutrix was pregnant but also proved that accused
represented before PW1 that he was her husband. PW7
also proved that consent form was signed by accused in
the capacity of husband. PW7 proved the consent form as
Ex.PW7/A, Form No.1 as Ex.PW7/B and OT Register entry as
Ex.PW7/C which were even not challenged by the accused.
29.           Eleventhly, arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel
that there are several contradictions in the testimonies of
PW4 & PW5 and these have demolished the prosecution
case is not convincing. In my view there were only minor
discrepancies which are likely to happen in every case and
are liable to be ignored, in view of principles of law laid
down in case, State v. Jai Hind, (supra) relied on by Ld.
Additional Public Prosecutor.
30.           Twelthly, the arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel
that there was delay in registration of FIR is not convincing.
The prosecutrix has explained the circumstances in which
she lodged the report. She, inter-alia, stated that on
24.11.2009, the accused breached his promise to marry
her and she immediately lodged her report to the police. In

SC No.24/13              State vs. Jatin Gupta     Page 21 of 27
 my view, she has explained the circumstances for not
reporting the case soon after first sexual assault of
accused on her.
31.           My decision in this regard finds support by a
case, Sagar Kumar v. State of Haryana, 2011(1) RCR
(Criminal) 621, wherein Punjab and Haryana High Court
observed that:
32.           Thirteenthly, there is no evidence on record
showing any motive or reason for the prosecutrix and her
mother to depose falsely against the accused particularly
when he was in their relation unless he had committed the
alleged crimes. The accused has failed to prove his
defence       that   he   was    falsely    implicated   under     the
misguidance of maternal uncle of the prosecutrix or she
was having affairs with a boy Sonu. My view finds supports

SC No.24/13                State vs. Jatin Gupta          Page 22 of 27
 by a case Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State of
Gujarat, (SC), 1983 A.I.R. (S.C.) 753, wherein the Apex
Court observed:
34.           While    considering       and      analyzing   entire
prosecution evidence this court has come to the conclusion
that all the oral, circumstantial and scientific evidence has
proved that the accused Jatin Gupta committed sexual
intercourse with the prosecutrix forcibly against her will.
Thereafter, he made to understand the prosecutrix that he
will marry her and in that false pretext repeatedly

SC No.24/13               State vs. Jatin Gupta          Page 23 of 27
 performed sexual intercourse with her and when she
became pregnant he compelled and voluntarily caused
prosecutrix to miscarry the child and got her pregnancy
terminated and that was not in good faith for the purpose
of saving life of the prosecutrix. Therefore, it is bounden
duty of this court to held the accused guilty and convict
him.
                           CONCLUSION
35.           In view of the above reasons, discussion and
evidence on record and particularly discussed here in
above, it is held that the prosecution has successfully
proved its case against the accused Jatin Gupta beyond
any reasonable suspicion or shadow of doubt that he not
only committed sexual intercourse with prosecutrix forcibly
and repeatedly against her will and made her pregnant but
also   compelled     her     and     voluntarily   caused   her   to
miscarriage the child and got her pregnancy terminated
and thereby he committed offence of rape on prosecutrix
punishable u/s 376 IPC and offence of causing miscarriage
punishable u/s 312 IPC. Therefore, accused is held guilty
and convicted for the offences punishable u/s 376/312 IPC.
Announced in the Open Court
Dated:08.02.2013
                                     (DR. T.R. NAVAL)
                             Additional Sessions Judge, (SFTC)
                              Karkardooma Courts, Delhi


SC No.24/13                State vs. Jatin Gupta        Page 24 of 27
 IN THE COURT OF DR. T. R. NAVAL, ADDITIONAL SESSIONS
  JUDGE, (SPECIAL FAST TRACK COURT) KARKARDOOMA
              COURTS, SHAHDARA, DELHI


SC NO.49/13
FIR No.521/09
PS Bhajanpura
U/S 376/312 IPC

                     State Versus Jatin Gupta

                      ORDER ON SENTENCE

12.02.2013
Present:      Ms. Madhu Arora Addl. P.P. for the State.
              Convict/accused in J.C.
              Sh. Virender Singh Advocate for the
              convict/accused.
              Smt. ______Y______ mother of the prosecutrix
              with prosecutrix and her son Sh. ______Z______.
              I have heard arguments on the quantum of
sentence.
2.            It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Defence
Counsel that accused/convict was a young boy of 22 years
of age at the time of commission of alleged crime; there
was friendship between the accused and the prosecutrix
and they were considering to marry each other but due to


SC No.24/13               State vs. Jatin Gupta      Page 25 of 27
 suspicion and other misunderstanding their marriage could
not be solemnized; the prosecutrix and accused are still
willing to marry with each other; mother of accused/convict
is widow; he is the only bread earner in the family; and he
has no previous criminal record. It has been prayed that
lenient view in sentence may be taken considering the re-
formative theory of punishment.
3.            On the other hand, it has been argued on behalf
of   Ld.      Additional   Public    Prosecutor    that    deterrent
punishment may be awarded to the accused keeping in
view that unborn child was also caused to be miscarried
and he had committed rape on the prosecutrix several
times. However, prosecutrix, her mother and brother
prayed for lenient view in sentence.
4.            Keeping in view the submissions and all relevant
factors and circumstances in which the accused committed
crime, it would be just and appropriate if lenient view in
sentence is taken. Accordingly, convict/accused Jatin Gupta
is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 7 years
and he is further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.20,000/- in
default simple imprisonment for one year for the offence
punishable under section 376 IPC.
 5.            Convict/accused       Jatin         Gupta   is       further
sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for 3 years and
he is further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- in
default simple imprisonment for six months for the offence
punishable under section 312 IPC.
6.            Both the sentences will run concurrently.
7.            It is further ordered that if convict/accused Jatin
Gupta has undergone any period in judicial custody, that
period will be set off against the sentence as provided U/s
428 Cr. P.C.
8.            The convict/accused Jatin Gupta be sent to
imprisonment to serve the sentence.
9.            A copy each of judgment and order on sentence
is supplied to convict/accused Jatin Gupta free of cost.
              File be consigned to Record Room.
Announced in the Open Court
Dated:12.02.2013
                                    (DR. T.R. NAVAL)
                            Additional Sessions Judge, (SFTC)
                             Karkardooma Courts, Delhi




SC No.24/13               State vs. Jatin Gupta                Page 27 of 27
