              The facts in brief of the prosecution case are
that on 01.08.2011 at about 4 a.m. at D-43, Nathu Colony,
Nand Nagri, Delhi, accused Shahnawaz Alam enticed
prosecutrix ___X___ aged about 17 years out of keeping of
her lawful guardianship without their consent and that was
done with the intention to seduce the prosecutrix to illicit
intercourse     and   in    continuation    thereof   in   between
01.08.2011 to 09.08.2011, accused Shahnawaz Alam
committed rape on her. Shri __________Y_______, brother in
law (Jija) of the prosecutrix reported the matter to the


SC No.09/13           State vs. Shahnawaz Alam         Page 1 of 27
 police and the police recorded his statement and on the
basis of his statement FIR No. 322/11 u/s 363 IPC on
02.08.2011 was recorded. IO prepared the site plan after
inspection of the place of occurrence and got flashed WT
Message. Form ZIPNET was got filled in. He obtained the
call detail records of telephone of prosecutrix and accused.
On 14.08.201 at the pointing out of the complainant,
accused and prosecutrix were apprehended at Anand Vihar
Railway       Station.   Both    of   them     were    got      medically
examined. Samples were given by the doctor which were
taken into possession and these were deposited in the
malkhana and thereafter, these were sent to FSL, Rohini. At
the time of arrest of accused, his arrest memo and
personal search memo were also prepared. Statement of
prosecutrix u/s 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, here
in after referred to as the Code was also got recorded. FSL
result was obtained after completion of investigation.
Police filed charge sheet against accused for his trial for
the offences punishable u/s 363/366/376 IPC.
2.             Ld.   Metropolitan     Magistrate      after     supplying
copies of charge sheet and documents to the accused
committed this case to the court of sessions.
3.             This case was assigned to Shri R.P.S. Teji Ld. ASJ

SC No.09/13              State vs. Shahnawaz Alam             Page 2 of 27
 (FTC) who vide his order dated 09.12.2011 opined that
there was sufficient material on record to frame charge
against the accused for the offences punishable u/s
363/366/376 IPC. Therefore, charge against the accused
for his trial for the said offences was framed and read over
to him in vernacular language. He pleaded not guilty and
claimed trial.
4.            The prosecution, in order to prove its case
examined       Ms.    ________X_______     as     PW1;   Dr.    Sruthi
Bhaskaran as PW2; Ms. Shuchi Laler, Ld. M.M. as PW3;
W/HC Ranjeeta as PW4; Sh. ______Y_____ as PW5; W/ASI
Shakun as PW6; HC Manoj Kumar as PW7; HC Bhagmal as
PW8; Ct. Ram Kishan as PW9; SI Gopi Chand as PW10; HC
Tuki    Ram      as     PW11;      and     Chandragupt         Narain,
Administrative Officer, U.P. Board, Meerut as PW12.
5.            Vide    order   No.20/372-512/F.3.(4)/ASJ/01/2013
dated 04.01.2013, on constitution of Special Fast Track
Courts for trial of sexual offences, Hon'ble District &
Sessions Judge, transferred this case to this court.
6.            The prosecution also examined WSI Usha as
PW13; Dr. Parmeshwar Ram, CMO, GTB Hospital, Delhi as
PW14;    and     Manisha      Upadhyay,     Sr.   Scientific   Officer

SC No.09/13            State vs. Shahnawaz Alam          Page 3 of 27
 (Biology), FSL, Rohini, Delhi as PW15.
7.            After closing of prosecution evidence statement
of the accused u/s 313 of the Code was recorded. All the
material and incriminating evidence was put to him.
Accused       admitted         that    he    was      residing      in     the
neighbourhood of prosecutrix and he took prosecutrix to
Bihar and both reached there on 09.08.2011 and that he
and prosecutrix were apprehended at Anand Vihar Railway
Station and that he was medically examined in the GTB
hospital vide MLC Ex.PW9/A by Dr. P. Ram or that phone
No. 9289386316 belonged to him. He expressed his
ignorance about rest of the prosecution evidence and
pleaded that he was falsely implicated in the present case
due to reasons which were not known to him. Accused
opted not to lead any D.E.
8.            After closing of prosecution evidence, I have
heard arguments addressed by Ld. Additional Public
Prosecutor for the State and Ld. Defence Counsel for
accused and perused file.
9.            In    order     to   prove    its    case   that      accused
committed          an    offence       of   kidnapping      from         lawful
guardianship,           punishable    u/s    Section      363     IPC,     the

SC No.09/13                State vs. Shahnawaz Alam             Page 4 of 27
 prosecution has to prove firstly, that the prosecutrix who
was taken or enticed was under 18 years of age; secondly,
that the accused had taken or enticed the prosecutrix out
of the keeping of her lawful guardian.
10.           In    order    to   prove    its   case    that   accused
committed an offence of kidnapping, abducting or inducing
women to compel marriage, etc. punishable u/s 366 IPC,
prosecution has to prove firstly, that the prosecutrix was
abducted by the accused, i.e., accused either by force
compelled      or    by     any    deceitful     means    induced     the
prosecutrix to go from her place and secondly, the
prosecutrix was abducted with the intention that the
prosecutrix may be compelled or knowing it to be likely
that she will be compelled to marry any person against her
will or in order that she may be forced to do illicit
intercourse.
11.           In order to prove its case for the offence of rape,
punishable u/s 376 IPC, the prosecution has to prove firstly,
that accused committed sexual intercourse with the
prosecutrix        and      secondly,     sexual     intercourse      was
committed against her will.
12.           It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Additional

SC No.09/13               State vs. Shahnawaz Alam          Page 5 of 27
 Public Prosecutor that prosecution witnesses have proved
both the offences against the accused beyond any
reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt and the
accused is liable to be held guilty and convicted for the
said offences.
13.           On the other hand, it has been argued by Ld.
Defence Counsel that prosecutrix by her volition left the
house of her sister and brother in law and the accused
cannot be held guilty for that. He also stressed on the point
that as told by the prosecution the age of the prosecutrix
was 17 years and 3 months. Thus she was at the verge of
attaining majority. She herself           took the decision to
accompany the accused and the accused cannot be held
responsible for that act.
14.           In support of his arguments Ld. Defence Counsel
relied on a case Bhagwan Singh & Ors. v. State and Anr.,
2006 [3] JCC 2050 wherein Delhi High Court held that:
15.           Ld. Defence Counsel further relied on a case
Mahabir v. State (Delhi), 1994(3) RCR 46 wherein Delhi
High Court held that:
16.           Ld. Defence Counsel further relied on a case
Om Prakash v. State of Haryana, 1998 Cri. L.J. 1606
wherein P&H High Court held that:
17.           Ld. Defence Counsel further relied on a case
Jinish Lal Shah v. State of Bihar, 2003(1) RCR (Criminal)
247 wherein it was observed by Apex Court that:
18.           On   the     other    hand,    Ld.    Additional   Public
Prosecutor for the State relied on a case, State v. Jai Hind,
2012 VI AD (Delhi) 170 wherein it was held by Delhi High
Court that:
Whether prosecutrix was a minor on the date of occurrence
19.            PW5 on this aspect deposed that on 01.08.2011
at about 4 a.m. _________X________ aged 17 years and 9
months        were found missing from his house. There is no
cross examination of PW5 about the age of the prosecutrix.
PW10 in his cross examination stated that on 01.08.2011
complainant did not produce any document pertaining to
age of prosecutrix. PW12 Administrative Officer, UP Board,
Meerut on this aspect deposed that he had brought the
original tabulation register of 10th Board Examination of UP
Board. The name of ___X___ d/o ____X1____ and _____X2____


SC No.09/13            State vs. Shahnawaz Alam         Page 10 of 27
 _______appears at Serial No.0146264 of the tabulation
register. The photostat copy of the said page was proved
as Ex.PW12/A. He further deposed that as per the record
brought       by   him    the    date    of   birth       of    ___X___     was
10.10.1993.        In    cross   examination         he        admitted    that
tabulation register is maintained as per the record supplied
by the concerned school. PW1 on 19.01.2012 told her age
as 18 years and three months. There is no cross
examination of prosecutrix regarding her date of birth.
However, she was cross examined regarding age of her
father, mother, sister and brother. PW3 proved statement
of prosecutrix recorded u/s 164 Cr. P.C. In that statement
prosecutrix told her age on the date of recording her
statement as 17 ½ years. PW10 on this aspect deposed
that date of birth certificate of victim ___X___ was
Ex.PW10/M and as per certificate, date of birth of ___X___
was 10.10.1993. PW12 proved a document of Madhyamik
Shiksha Parishad, Kendriya Karyalaya, Meerut, U.P., as
Ex.PW12/A. On perusal of document Ex.PW12/A, I find that
her date of birth has been mentioned as 10.10.1993. High
School Examination Certificate of the prosecutrix has been
proved as Ex.PW10/M. According to this document, date of
birth of the prosecutrix is 10.10.1993. The date of
occurrence is 01.08.2011. On calculation the age of
prosecutrix on the date of occurrence comes to 17 years 9

SC No.09/13               State vs. Shahnawaz Alam                Page 11 of 27
 months and three days. Although in cross examination the
prosecutrix admitted that she did not have any proof of her
date of birth issued by either MCD or hospital yet that will
not   provide    any    benefit    to   the     accused    as    above
mentioned two documents Ex.PW2/A and Ex.PW10/M have
abundantly       proved     the     age    of     the     prosecutrix.
Consequently, it is held that the prosecutrix was a minor as
she was less than 18 years of age on the date of
occurrence.
Enticed or taking away of the prosecutrix out of keeping of
her lawful guardianship

20.           PW1 on this aspect deposed that on 01.08.2011
she was talking on phone with accused Shahnawaz in the
night. Accused asked her to come down stating that he had
some work with her. At that time, her other family
members were sleeping. She went down after opening the
door. Thereafter, accused Shahnawaz caught hold her with
her hand and got her boarded into an auto and took her to
Nangloi where his brother namely Sonu was residing and
kept her there for six days. In cross examination, she
stated that the telephone from which she used to make call
to the accused Shahnawaz was given to her by him and
that was given to her as a gift without any reason. She also
stated when she went downstairs accused Shahnawaz and


SC No.09/13            State vs. Shahnawaz Alam           Page 12 of 27
 one TSR driver were present there. She made alarm when
TSR moved from there. She did not try to get the TSR
stopped while raising alarm as her mouth was gaged by
the accused through out the way. She did not make hue
and cry at the Railway Station. No police official was
present there. She did not raise any hue and cry in the
train.   She   did   not   see     any    police   official   in   the
compartment. She told to the police at Patna Bihar when
accused went to use toilet. In the statement recorded u/s
164 of the Code, she, inter-alia, stated that when she came
down after opening the door Shahnawaz caught hold her
hand and got her boarded           in the auto and took her to
Nangloi where his brother used to reside. PW5 on this
aspect deposed that prosecutrix, his sister in law used to
reside with his wife since three months prior to the
incident. On 01.08.2011 at about 4 a.m., the prosecutrix
aged 17 years and 9 months was found missing from the
house. He made inquiry and searched her but she could
not be searched. He raised suspicion upon accused
Shahnawaz present in the court that he enticed away
prosecutrix,   his   sister   in   law.   He    lodged    complaint
Ex.PW5/A. PW9 deposed that on 14.08.2011 he was posted
as constable at P.S. Nand Nagri. On that day an information
was received regarding prosecutrix and Shahnawaz and on
receipt of an information DD No.9A copy of which is

SC No.09/13          State vs. Shahnawaz Alam            Page 13 of 27
 Ex.PW9/A was recorded. He alongwith W/HC Ranjeeta and
IO reached at Anand Vihar Railway Station from where
prosecutrix was recovered. Recovery memo Ex.PW4/A was
prepared. Accused Shahnawaz Alam present in the court
was also arrested from there vide arrest memo Ex.PW5/B
and personal search memo Ex.PW5/C. Like is the statement
of PW10 SI Gopi Chand.
21.           The accused in his statement recorded u/s 313
of the Code admitted that he was residing in the
neighbourhood of the prosecutrix on 01.08.2011. He also
admitted that on 07.08.2011 he took PW1 to Bihar and
they reached at Bihar on 09.08.2011. He also admitted
that he was arrested. The evidence on record coupled with
the statement of accused has proved that accused
Shahnawaz enticed the prosecutrix and took her away out
of the keeping of her lawful guardianship.
              As the prosecution has proved on record beyond
reasonable suspicion and shadow of doubt that accused
enticed or took away the prosecutrix who was minor,
therefore, it stands       proved on record that accused
committed       the   offence    of   kidnapping   from    lawful
guardianship defined u/s 361 IPC and punishable u/s 363
IPC.
 Kidnapping or abducting of the prosecutrix by the accused
with the intention that prosecutrix may be seduced to illicit
intercourse

22.            Evidence in respect of kidnapping has already
been discussed here in above. On the aspect of forcing her
or seducing her to do illicit intercourse, PW1, inter alia,
deposed that accused Shahnawaz caught hold her and got
her boarded into TSR and took her to Nangloi where his
brother Sonu was residing and kept her there for six days.
He told his brother Sonu that he had brought her there
after performing marriage and he had also told that her
parents       were   ready    for   that.   Accused   Shahnawaz
committed rape upon her without her consent. PW2 on this
aspect deposed that on 14.08.2011 he was working as Sr.
Resident in GTB Hospital Delhi. On that day she had
examined ______X_______ 17 years of age brought by lady
Ct. Ranjeeta with alleged history of being kidnapped and
raped     by     accused     Shahnawaz,      her   neighbour     on
01.08.2011 and she was forcibly taken to Nangloi and was
kept in captivity till 06.08.2011 and thereafter, she was
taken to Bihar where she was found by police on
09.08.2011. She proved her MLC as Ex.PW2/A. In cross
examination, she stated that only positive examination
finding was that the hymen was found torn which was
corresponding to her statement. Lady HC Ranjeeta, inter-
 alia, stated that prosecutrix and accused both were
recovered and recovery memo Ex.PW4/A was prepared.
Medical examination of victim was got done by a doctor by
her at GTB Hospital. PW9 and PW10 also corroborated her
statement. PW2 IO also stated that prosecutrix was got
medically examined through lady Ct. Ranjeeta in GTB
Hospital vide MLC Ex.PW2/A and as per MLC hymen was
found torn.
              Evidence on record and particularly discussed
here in above has established that accused kidnapped the
prosecutrix with the intention that the prosecutrix may be
compelled or may be forced to do illicit intercourse.
Sexual intercourse was committed with the prosecutrix by
the accused

23.           PW1, the prosecutrix, inter alia, stated that after
enticing her, accused took her in a TSR, to Nangloi to the
house of his brother Sonu. Accused Shahnawaz committed
rape upon her without her consent. Evidence in detail on
this aspect has already been discussed here in above.
Same is not being repeated to avoid repetition. PW2, as
per the evidence discussed here in above has also stated
that she had examined prosecutrix vide MLC Ex.PW2/A and
her hymen was found torn. PW3 has proved statement u/s
164 of the Code Ex.PW1/A in which she specifically stated

SC No.09/13           State vs. Shahnawaz Alam       Page 16 of 27
 that accused Shahnawaz not only misbehaved with her but
also committed rape upon her on 1st, 2nd and after few days
again on date 06.08.2011. PW5 in her statement, inter alia,
stated that on missing of his sister in law he reported the
matter to police on the basis of which FIR of present case
was recorded and at her pointing out accused was arrested
and prosecutrix was recovered from his company at Anand
Vihar Railway Station. PW6, inter alia, deposed that she got
the statement of prosecutrix u/s 164 of the Code recorded
by Ld. M.M. PW10 also corroborated the prosecution case
and statement of prosecutrix on the aspect of reporting of
case by brother in law of prosecutrix, arrest of accused and
recovery of prosecutrix from his company, preparation of
arrest memo, examination of accused in the hospital,
handing over of exhibits by doctor, depositing of the same
in malkhana, sending them to FSL and obtaining result
from FSL Ex.PW10/C and Ex.PW10/L. PW14, inter alia,
stated that on 14.08.2011 Mohd. Shahnawaz was brought
in the hospital for his medical examination by Ct. Ram
Kishan with the alleged history of sexual assault on
07.08.2011. After his medical examination in detail he had
given his opinion that there was nothing to suggest that
Shahnawaz Alam was not capable to perform sexual
intercourse. Blood sample, semen sample, underwear were
seized and handed over to police. He proved MLC

SC No.09/13        State vs. Shahnawaz Alam     Page 17 of 27
 Ex.PW9/A. PW15 proved biological and serological report
Ex.PW10/A and Ex.PW10/L. The evidence on record and
particularly discussed here in above has established that
he was the accused Shahnawaz who committed sexual
intercourse with the prosecutrix forcibly.
Sexual intercourse was committed on prosecutrix by the
accused without her consent

24.           Ld. Defence Counsel during his arguments
highlighted some portions of the cross examination of
prosecutrix in which she stated that she had made
friendship with the accused in the year 2011. The mobile
phone was given to her by accused. She did not know as to
when accused Shahnawaz had given his telephone to her.
She used to talk with the accused Shahnawaz regarding
her love with him in the absence of her sister and brother
in law. She used to keep mobile phone in the Almira. She
was free to talk with accused at any time. Accused
Shahnawaz and she used to live in the same house in
different rooms. She used to stay with her sister and
brother in law (Jija) and accused used to reside with other
tenants including Ishtiyaqe, etc. The address of the lane
i.e. D-43, School Block, Nathu Colony, Nand Nagri, Delhi
was about 6 ft. Main road was at a distance of two minutes
walk. She did not open the door of her room as on that

SC No.09/13         State vs. Shahnawaz Alam   Page 18 of 27
 date room was not bolted from inside. Door of stairs used
to be closed at 10-11 p.m. She did not raise alarm after
getting down from the TSR. She did not raise hue and cry
at the Railway Station and in the railway compartment.
25.           I have considered these admissions of the
prosecutrix but in my view these are not going to help the
accused.      Conversely,     the   evidence      on   record     and
particularly discussed here in above has proved beyond
suspicion and reasonable doubt, commission of offence of
kidnapping      from    lawful   guardianship,     kidnapping       or
inducing a woman to compel her marriage, etc. and
commission of rape. The reasons which support my
decision are firstly, that as per discussion made here in
above, the prosecution has proved all the necessary
ingredients for these offences.
26.           Secondly, it has been proved on record that the
prosecutrix was a minor i.e. less than 18 years of age at
the time of occurrence of the offence. Therefore, even if it
is presumed for the sake of arguments that prosecutrix
willingly accompanied the accused, it will not provide any
benefit to the accused as the prosecutrix was a minor on
the date of occurrence.
 27.           Thirdly, the evidence on record, i.e. the portion
of evidence of the prosecutrix in which she stated that
mobile phone was given to her by the accused is a clear
instance of enticing her. Besides, the prosecutrix has given
convincing reason for not raising alarm till the incident was
reported to the Bihar police on 09.08.2011. There is no
evidence on record that the prosecutrix was given freedom
to accompany or not to accompany the accused. The
evidence has established that when she got down from her
house she was made to board the TSR. It is not a case of
accused that before taking her away she consented and
she herself opted to go with the accused. She has further
given convincing reason not to raise alarm during the way.
She told that her mouth was gaged and she was not able
to raise alarm. She did not raise alarm at the railway
station or compartment or any other place as she did not
found presence of police. When she happened to see the
police   at    Bihar   and    she    had    an    opportunity,    she
immediately informed the police that accused was taking
her forcibly. These portions of her evidence have clearly
established that she was not a consenting party to
accompany with the accused. Rather, the evidence has
established that it is a clear case of betrayal of friendship
which she developed with accused during past three
months from the date of incident.
 28.           Fourthly, the principles of law laid down in case
Bhagwan Singh & Ors. v. State and Anr., (supra), relied on
by Ld. Defence Counsel, will not provide any benefit to the
accused as facts of present case and that case are quiet
different. In that case the prosecutrix was a married girl
and the accused was her husband. Like are not the facts of
present case. The principles of law laid down in Mahabir v.
State (Delhi), (supra), relied on by Ld. Defence Counsel,
also will not provide any benefit to the accused as in that
case prosecutrix indulged in sexual intercourse with the
accused with her consent and she moved at various places
with the accused. The facts of present case are different.
The principles of law laid down in Om Prakash v. State of
Haryana, (supra), relied on by Ld. Defence Counsel, will
also not provide any benefit to the accused as in that case
the age of prosecutrix was over 18 years and she was
going to various places with the accused and she was
willing party to the whole affairs. The principles of law laid
down in Jinish Lal Shah v. State of Bihar, (supra), relied on
by Ld. Defence Counsel, will also not provide any benefit to
the accused as in that case prosecution has failed to
establish that prosecutrix was below 18 years of age and
the prosecutrix had willingly went with the accused. Similar
are not the facts of the present case.
 29.           Fifthly, I find the testimony of prosecutrix and
other witnesses consistent, reliable and trustworthy. There
is no material contradictions which could create any
reasonable      suspicion   and    shadow        of   doubt   in   the
genuineness of the prosecution case.
30.           Sixthly, the other documentary evidence              has
also supported the prosecution case, e.g. Ex.PW10/H and
Ex. PW10/J-1 to Ex. PW10/J-5, are the copies of CDR
showing the conversation between the accused and the
prosecutrix. Even otherwise accused in his statement
recorded u/s 313 of the Code has, inter alia, admitted that
prosecutrix was residing in his neighbourhood. He was
arrested by the police. He was medically examined. Mobile
phone bearing No.9289386316 belonged to him.
31.           Seventhly, there is no evidence on record
showing any motive or reason for the prosecutrix to
depose falsely against the accused particularly when he
was her neighbour and she developed friendship with him
unless he had committed the alleged crimes. My view finds
supports by a case Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State
of Gujarat, (SC), 1983 A.I.R. (S.C.) 753, wherein the Apex
Court observed:
While    considering     and     analyzing        entire   prosecution
evidence this court has come to the conclusion that all the
oral, circumstantial and scientific evidence has proved that
the accused Shahnawaz Alam committed offence of
kidnapping      from    lawful   guardianship,        kidnapping       or
inducing a woman to compel her marriage, etc. and
committed sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix forcibly
against her will. Therefore, it is bounden duty of this court
to held the accused guilty and convict him.
                            CONCLUSION
33.           In view of the above reasons, discussion and
evidence on record and particularly discussed here in
above, it is held that the prosecution has successfully
proved its case against the accused Shahnawaz Alam
beyond any reasonable suspicion or shadow of doubt that
accused enticed or took away the prosecutrix who was a
minor girl, less than 18 years of age on the date of incident
out of keeping of her lawful guardianship without the
consent of her guardian/complainant i.e. brother in law and
sister and committed sexual intercourse with her forcibly
against her will. Thus, the accused committed offence of
kidnapping the prosecutrix from her lawful guardianship,
forced    and    seduced     her     to    illicit   intercourse       and
committed sexual intercourse with prosecutrix forcibly and
repeatedly without her will and against her consent.
Consequently, accused is held guilty and convicted for the
offence of kidnapping from lawful guardianship, offence of
kidnapping/abducting/inducing              woman        to        compel
marriage,     etc.   and   offence    of     rape     punishable        u/s
363/366/376 IPC, respectively.
Announced in the Open Court
Dated:11.02.2013
                                    (DR. T.R. NAVAL)
                            Additional Sessions Judge, (SFTC)
                             Karkardooma Courts, Delhi


SC No.09/13           State vs. Shahnawaz Alam               Page 24 of 27
 IN THE COURT OF DR. T. R. NAVAL, ADDITIONAL SESSIONS
  JUDGE, (SPECIAL FAST TRACK COURT) KARKARDOOMA
              COURTS, SHAHDARA, DELHI

SC No.09/13
State vs. Shahnawaz Alam
FIR No.322/11
PS Nand Nagri

                  State Versus Shahnawaz Alam

                      ORDER ON SENTENCE
14.02.2013
Present:      Ms. Madhu Arora Addl. P.P. for the State.
              Convict/accused in J.C.
              Sh. D.K. Singh Advocate for the
              convict/accused.
              I have heard arguments on the quantum of
sentence.
2.            It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Defence
Counsel that accused/convict is a young boy of 21 years of
age at the time of commission of alleged crime; he is the
only bread earner in the family; and he has no previous
criminal record. It has been prayed that lenient view in
sentence may be taken considering the re-formative theory
of punishment.
3.            On the other hand, it has been argued on behalf
of   Ld.      Additional   Public   Prosecutor    that     deterrent
punishment may be awarded to the accused keeping in

SC No.09/13            State vs. Shahnawaz Alam          Page 25 of 27
 view that he had committed rape on the prosecutrix who
was minor.
4.            Keeping in view the submissions and all relevant
factors and circumstances in which the accused committed
crime, it would be just and appropriate if deterrent view in
sentence       is    taken.      Accordingly,       convict/accused
Shahnawaz       Alam    is    sentenced     to    undergo   rigorous
imprisonment for 5 years and he is further sentenced to
pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- in default simple imprisonment for
one year for the offence punishable under section                363
IPC.
5.            Convict/accused Shahnawaz Alam is sentenced
to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 7 years and he is
further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.7,000/- in default
simple imprisonment for one year and three months for the
offence punishable under section 366 IPC.
6.            Convict/accused Shahnawaz Alam is sentenced
to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 8 years and he is
further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs.8,000/- in default
simple imprisonment for one year and six months for the
offence punishable under section 376 IPC.
7.            All these sentences will run concurrently.
8.            It is further ordered that if convict/accused
Shahnawaz Alam has undergone any period in judicial
custody, that period will be set off against the sentence as

SC No.09/13            State vs. Shahnawaz Alam         Page 26 of 27
 provided U/s 428 Cr. P.C.
9.            Out of the fine amount, and after expiration of
the period of appeal, a sum of Rs.10,000/- be paid to the
prosecutrix as compensation. Besides this compensation,
she will also be entitled to get other compensation               if
available to her under other laws.
10.           The convict/accused Shahnawaz Alam be sent
to imprisonment to serve the sentence.
11.           A copy each of judgment and order on sentence
is supplied to convict/accused Shahnawaz Alam free of
cost.
              File be consigned to Record Room.
Announced in the Open Court
Dated:14.02.2013
                                   (DR. T.R. NAVAL)
                           Additional Sessions Judge, (SFTC)
                            Karkardooma Courts, Delhi




SC No.09/13           State vs. Shahnawaz Alam    Page 27 of 27
