Brief Facts:
(1)          As per the allegations, on 6.2.2012 at about 10:00 PM in 

the   Gali   near   Shilpa   Gas   Agency,   the   accused   Manoj   and   Amit 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                         Page 1
 kidnapped   the   prosecutrix   'M'  (name   of   the   girl   is   withheld   case  

being under Section 376 (2) (g) IPC), a minor aged below 16 years of 

age, from the lawful guardianship of her parents with intention to 

force  or  seduce  her  to  illicit  intercourse and thereafter committed 

rape upon her and also criminally intimidate her to be killed in case if 

she raises an alarm.


Case of Prosecution in brief:
(2)          The case of the prosecution in brief is that a complaint was 

lodged by the prosecutrix 'M' in Police Station Kanjhawla wherein 

she alleged that on 6.2.2012 she had gone to fetch milk when Manoj 

who was previously known to her met her.  She further alleged that 

Manoj was in a black colour car and one boy whose name she came 

to know was Amit was also sitting with him on front seat.  She has 

further   alleged   that   Manoj   asked   her   as   to   where   was   her   sister 

Sakina   on   which   she   told   Manoj   that   Sakina   was   at   home.   She 

alleged that Manoj came out of the car and at the same time Amit 

opened the back side window of the car and Manoj forcibly pulled 

her inside the car and when she raised alarm, Manoj threatened to kill 

her.     Thereafter   they   took   her   to   an   isolated   place   where   they 

committed rape upon her one by one on the back seat of the car after 

which they dropped her there itself. She also alleged that somehow 

she   reached   her   house   but   did   not   tell   anything   to   her   family. 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 2
 However, in the morning she disclosed the incident to her mother and 

sister   who   brought   her   to   the   police   station   and   the   case   was 

registered. 
(3)          On the basis of the above complaint, rukka was prepared 

and   FIR   was   registered.     During   investigations,   the   accused   were 

arrested and after completing the investigations, the charge sheet was 

filed in the court. 


CHARGE:
(4)          Charge under Section 363/366/506/376(2) (g) Indian Penal 

Code was settled against both Manoj and Amit to which they pleaded 

not guilty and claimed trial.


EVIDENCE:
(5)          In order to discharge the onus upon it, the prosecution has 

examined as many as twenty two witnesses:


Public Witnesses:
(1)          PW5   Shardha  is   the   teacher   at   Sarvodya   Kanya 

Vidhyalaya, Karala. She has produced  the admission record of the 

prosecutrix 'M' showing that she was admitted in their school on 8th 

April, 2010 in Class 6th and her date of birth as per the school record 



State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 3
 is 5th January, 1999.  According to the witness the entry with regard 

to the date of birth, has been made on the basis of transfer certificate 

of  the  primary   school  namely Nigam  Pratibha Balika Vidhyalaya, 

Karala.  She has placed on record the copy of the admission register 

which is Ex.PW5/A showing the date of birth at point encircled X, 

copy of the pasting file is Ex.PW5/B and the certificate issued by the 

Principal   regarding   the   date   of   birth   is  Ex.PW5/C.    In   her   cross 

examination she has admitted that no date of birth certificate of child 

issued by the MCD was filed in school at the time of her admission 

and has voluntarily deposed that the entry in the school register had 

been made on the basis of SLC. 
(2)          PW9   Anuradha  has   deposed   that  on   07.02.2012   she 

received a call from SI Rajesh at 8:00 AM regarding a rape victim 

and on receipt of the said call, she reached at PS Kanjawala at 8:30 

AM where she met the child 'M', aged about 13 years who appeared 

to   be   very   scared.   According   to   the   witness,   she   spoke   to   the 

prosecutrix   'M'   and   counseled   her   after   which   her   statement   was 

recorded   which   is  Ex.PW9/A  and  thereafter   the   prosecutrix   was 

taken   to   the   hospital.    In   her   cross­examination,  the   witness   has 

deposed that the elder sister of the prosecutrix was present with her. 

She   has   denied   that   the   prosecutrix   had   made   her   statement 

Ex.PW9/A  on   her   tutoring   and   voluntarily   deposed   that   she   had 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 4
 made the same voluntarily of her own. 
(3)          PW10 is the Prosecutrix 'M' who has been examined in 

vernacular (Hindi).     According to the witness on 6.2.2012 at 6:30 

PM   when   she   was   purchasing   milk,   the   accused   Manoj   who  was 

sitting in the court (correctly identified) came to her and asked as to 

where was her sister on which she told him that her sister was at 

home and if he wanted to speak to her he should go to her house. (on  

06.02.2012   shyam   6­30  baje   Jab   Main   Doodh   Le   Rahi   Thi.   To  

Manoj Jo adalat Main betha hua hai (accused correctly identified)  

mere paas aaya aur bola - Teri Behan Kahan Hain?  Maini usse  

kaha wo ghar par hai  aur agar baat karni hai to ghar par chale  

jaoo).  According to the prosecutrix when she was still purchasing 

milk,   the   accused   Manoj   told   her   that   he   wanted   to   talk   about 

something to her on which she told him what he wanted to tell her 

but   Manoj   told   her  to   sit  in the  car and  thereafter  one  boy  Amit 

(accused correctly identified) came there in a black colour car and he 

opened the back door of the car  and Manoj forcibly pushed her and 

threatened   not   to   raise   any   alarm   or   else   he   would   kill   her   and 

thereafter they took her at a isolated place and asked her that they 

would not leave her till she would not give them. (Jab Main Doodh  

Kharid Rahi thi, Manoj phir Bole ­ Tujhse Baat Karni Hai.  Maini  

usese Bola ­ Baat Bolo. To Manoj Bola Gari Mai Betho.  Tab Ek  

Ladka   Amit(correctly  identified  the  accused  Amit  present   in   the  

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                                Page 5
 court)   Kali   Gari   Main   Aaya.   Amit   Ne   Pichala   Gate   Khola   aur  

Manoj   Ne   Mujhe   Dhakka   Diya   aur   Kehne   Laga   Chillayegi   To  

Maar Dunga.  Phir Dono Mujhe Sunsaan Jagah Par Le Gaye Aur  

Kaha Jab Tak Nahi Degi to Jane Nahi Denge).  The prosecutrix has 

further deposed that first it was Manoj who did jabardasti with in the 

car itself and went away and thereafter Amit took her in the car to 

various   isolated   places   and   he   also   did   jabardasti   with   her   and 

thereafter dropped her near Mangolpuri Ganda Nala from where she 

reached her house and informed her sister who took her to the police 

station. (Pahle Manoj Ne Gari Main Hi Jabardasti Kari Phir Chala  

Gaya.     Phir   Amit   Gari   Sunsan   Jagahaon   Par   Ghumane   Laga.  

Usne Bhi Jabardasti Kari Phir Mangol Puri Nale Ke Paas Chor  

Diya. Wahan Se Main Akeli Ghar Aayeee.   Ghar Par Maini Yeh  

Baat Batai aur meri behan mujhe  police station Main Le Gai".) 

(4)          On a court question as to what  Manoj and Amit did, the 

witness has replied saying Ganda Kaam Kiya Tha.  On further court 

question as to which class she was studying (Kaun Si class Main  

Padti   Ho),  the   witness   has   replied   that   she   studying   in   VII   calss 

(VIIth class Main Padti Huan)'.   On further asking by the court as 

to what she mean by 'Ganda Kaam', the witness has replied saying 

Ganda Kaam Se Matlab rape karna hain'. 



State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                               Page 6
 (5)          The witness has further deposed that thereafter when she 

went to police station Ms. Anuradha met her who asked her about the 

incident after which her statement was recorded by the police.  (Uske  

Baad Jab Main Thane Gayee To Wahan Mujhe Anuradha Didi  

Mili   Thi   aur   unhone   mujhse   saree   baat   poochi   thi.   Uske   baad  

thane main mera bayan huan tha). She has identified her statement 

Ex.PW9/A  and   has   identified   her   signatures   at   point   A.   She   has 

further deposed that after recording her statement, she was taken to 

the hospital where her medical examination was got conducted after 

which they return to the police station and also took the police to the 

spot where the accused pushed her inside the car.  (Bayan Ke Baad  

Main hospital Gai Jahan mera medical hua tha.  Medical Ke Baad  

Hum Thane Main Aa Gaye The. Maini police wale uncle ko woh  

jagah dikhayee thi jahan se dhakka dekar gadi mein bithya tha).  

Witness has identified the site plan prepared at her instance which is 

Ex.PW10/A  and   her  signatures   at   point   A   which   she   identifies. 

According to the prosecutrix on next day she came to the court and 

told the entire incident to Ld. MM. (Aagle Din Main Court Main  

Aayee   aur   maini   MM   Sahib   Ko   Sari   Baat   Batayee   Thi).    The 

prosecutrix   has   identified   her   statement  Ex.PW12/B  bearing   her 

signatures   at   point   A.     She   has   further   deposed   that   she   also 

identified   the   black   coloured   car   whose   number   she   does   not 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 7
 remember. (Maine Jo Kali Rang Ki Gari Jiska Number Yaad Nahi  

Hai , Pehchani Thi).   Witness has identified her signatures on the 

pointing out memo which is  Ex.PW10/B  bearing her signatures at 

point A. According to the witness the doctor had seized her clothes 

during the medical examination which she has identified in the court 

i.e. salwar Ex. P­1, kurta Ex. P­2, Brazier Ex. P­3 and jacket Ex.P­4. 

(6)          In her cross­examination the prosecutrix has deposed that  

she knew Manoj prior to the incident and has voluntarily explained  

that he was the friend of her sister­in­aw and they also participated  

in his birthday and he used to come to her house occasionally. (Main  

Manoj Ko Pehle Se Hi Janti Thi.  She  voluntarily explained "Wo  

Mere   Jija   Ka   Dost   Hai   aur   hum  Uske  Janamdin   par   gaye   the.  

Manoj   Kabhi   Kabhi   hamare   ghar   main   aa   jata   tha).    She   has 

further deposed that when she went to fetch milk, the accused was 

present there.   (Jab Main Doodh Lene Gayee Thi to Manoj Wahi  

Khara Tha".  She voluntarily explained that Manoj was aware that  

she   used   to   come   for   milk   daily.     (Usey   Pata   Tha  Ki   Main   Roj  

Doodh Lene Jaati Thi).   She again said sometimes she herself and 

sometimes her sister used to come to fetch milk. (Kabhi Main aur  

kabhi kabhi meri behan doodh lene jaati thi).  She has voluntarily 

explained that Manoj knew that they used to come for milk daily in 

the evening. (Usko Pata Tha Ki Hum Shyam Ko Doodh Lene Jaate  


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 8
 Hain).   According to the witness when she reached home after the 

incident   she   did   not   disclosed   about   it   to   her   parents   and   has 

voluntarily explained that she had disclosed to her mother and sisters 

but she did not disclose to her father as he does not talk such things 

and hence she did not tell him.   (Jab Main Waqyat Ke Baad Ghar  

Gayee Tab maini Papa Ko Waqyat Ke Baare Main Nahi Bataya  

Tha. Voluntarily explained that   Maini Apni Mummy aur Behan  

Ko Bataya Tha kyonki Papa Is Tarah Ki Baat Nahi Karte Hain  

isliye Maine unko Nahi Bataya Tha).  The witness has deposed that 

her younger sister Akina had made 100 number call and informed the 

poilce).    (100 Number Ki Call Meri Choti Behan Aakina Ne Kari  

Thi aur usi Ne police ko bataya tha).   The witness has denied that 

suggestion that her father had refused to make the complainant and 

has voluntarily explained that nobody had refused the same.   (Yeh  

Kehna Galat Hai Ki Mere Papa Ne Karwai Karne Ke Liye Mana  

Kiya. Voluntarily explained that   Kisi Ne Mana Nahi Kiya Tha). 

She admits that she had disclosed the entire incident to her sister in 

the night itself and has voluntarily explained that she had disclosed to 

her sister in the morning since in the night she was having pain in her 

stomach and hence she slept.  (Yeh Sahi Hai Ki Maini Apni Behan  

Ko Sari Baat Raat Ko Nahi Batayee Thi Voluntarily explained that  

Subah Batayee Thi Kyonki Raat Ko Mere Pet Main Dard Ho Raha  



State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                             Page 9
 Tha Aur Main So Gayee Thi).  She admits that her mother had taken 

her and her yelder sister to the police station.    (Yeh Sahi Hai Ki  

Mummy Mujhe Aur Meri Badi Behan Sakeena Ko Thana Main  

Chod Gayee  Thi).   The witness has denied that no car has come 

there.  (Yeh Kehna Galat Hai Ki Koyee Gadi Wahan Nahi Aayee).  

According to the witness when she was pushed in the car she had 

raised an alarm and has voluntarily examined that at that time there 

only Gai­Walas who were inside.  (Jab Mujhe Gari Main Dhakka  

Mara   Tha   To   Maine   Shor   Machaya   Tha   Voluntarily   explained  

that Tab Wahan sirf Gaye Wale Hi  Khare The Jo Ander The).  She 

has denied the suggestion that nobody had taken her anywhere and 

the  entire  incident   has  been created  by her  at   the instance of  her 

family.    (Yeh Kehna Galat Hai Ki Mujhe Koi Kahin Nahi Lekar  

Gaya aur Sara Wakya Maine apni family   ke kehna par banaya  

tha).  She has denied that 10­15 days prior to this incident, her father 

caught her while talking with 2­3 boys on which he was annoyed. 

(Yeh Kehna Galat Hai Ki Is Wakya Ke 10­15 din pehle mere Papa  

Ne Mujhe 2­3 Ladkon Ke Se Baat Karte Dekh Liya Tha jis se woh  

Gussa  ho gaye the).  Witness has voluntarily explained she was not 

talking to any body.  (hum kisi ladke se baat nahi harte the).   She 

has denied that no such incident had happened and she has falsely 

implicated  Manoj and Amit at the instance of her jija.  (Yeh Kehna  


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                     Page 10
 Galat Hai ki aisa koi incident nahi hua tha aur Manoj aur Amit Ko  

Maine Apne Jija Ke Kehne Par Phasaya Hai).
(7)          PW15 Surender Mohan has deposed that he is residing at 

the address mentioned in his testimony along with his family and he 

is   into   private   business   and   running   a   shop   of   mobile   shops. 

According to him the black Accent Car bearing No. 2698 is in his 

name and he drive the same.  He as deposed that his nephew Amit, 

S/o Jitender Gupta used to take his vehicle and it was either on 05th or 

06th  of February, 2012 that Amit Gupta had taken his black color 

Accent   car   bearing   No.   DL­2CW­2698   and   after   two   days,   he 

(witness) had received a call from Police Station Kanjhawala that the 

vehicle had been used for commission of an offence of kidnapping of 

a  girl.   According   to  the witness, he was directed to produce the 

vehicle   in   the   police   station   on   which   he   asked   his   brother   Anil 

Gupta to produce the said car at police station Kanjhawala and he 

came   to   know   that   his   vehicle   had   been   seized   by   the   police   on 

account of the incident.   The witness has deposed that later on, on 

26.02.2012 he got his vehicle released on superdari which is Ex.P5. 

This witness has not been cross­examined on behalf of the accused 

persons despite opportunity.
(8)          PW18 Sakina is the sister of prosecutrix. She has deposed 

that   on   06.02.2012   at   about   7.00­8.00   PM   her   sister   'M'   went   to 

purchase milk but she did not return and they searched for her in the 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 11
 area for about one or two hours and thereafter made a call to the 

police on 100 number stating that two­three boys had taken her sister 

since they telephoned her (sister) and she informed them that two­

three boys had taken her and they tied her eyes with a cloth and she 

does not know as to where they were taking her. According to her, 

thereafter they again telephoned her (prosecutrix) but she did not lift 

her mobile and thereafter she (witness) along with her relatives went 

in search of 'M'.  Witness has further deposed that her younger sister 

namely   Akeena   made   complaint   to   the   police   and   police   also 

telephoned 'M' on her mobile and 'M' lifted the phone after two three 

hours and told the police that she is returning back.   According to 

her, 'M' met near the nala at Budh Vihar and at that time they asked 

'M' about the incident but at that time she told   them that nothing 

wrong   was   done   with   her.    Witness   has   further   deposed   that 

subsequently   she   was   brought   to   the   house   and   they   again   made 

inquiries form 'M' and at that time she told  them that accused Manoj 

and Amit had taken her and raped her.   She further told that these 

persons namely Manoj and Amit threatened her not to disclose this 

fact to the police or relatives that is why she did not disclosed these 

facts to the police at the time of her recovery.  
(9)          Witness has further deposed that on the next day i.e. on 

07.02.2012   at   about   7.00AM   they   took   'M'   to   the   police   station 

Kanjhawala and police officials made inquiries from her in the ladies 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                          Page 12
 room and one Madam also reached there and she also made inquiries 

from 'M' in a room and also recorded her statement.   According to 

her, thereafter that Madam left the police station and thereafter one 

another   Madam   took   'M'   to   Sanjay   Gandhi   Memorial   Hospital, 

Mangol Puri at about 10.00AM where the medical examination of 

'M' was got conducted.  Witness has further deposed that Doctor had 

taken the clothes of 'M' in the hospital and thereafter they left the 

hospital at about 2.30PM and reached police station and thereafter 

the case was registered.  Witness has further deposed that thereafter 

he alongwith 'M' and police officials went to Mangol Puri in search 

of accused Manoj and at one place police prepared site plan at the 

instance of 'M' and thereafter they reached to the house of Manoj, 

(the address of the house of Manoj was given by his brother in law  

who was the friend of Manoj and he used to visit the house of his  

brother in law) at M­559 Mangol Puri where father of accused Manoj 

met them and accused Manoj was also present there.    Witness has 

further deposed that Police made inquiries from accused Manoj and 

her sister 'M' also identified the accused Manoj and thereafter Manoj 

was arrested and he was brought at the police station.  According to 

her, Police also made inquiries from Manoj about his associates and 

accused   Manoj   disclosed   the   name   of   accused   Amit   who   was 

residing at Budh Vihar and then she alongwith her sister 'M', accused 

Manoj and police officials went to the house of Amit at Budh Vihar 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                   Page 13
 and the  house  was  found locked.   Thereafter they returned to the 

Police   Station   and   police   recorded   her   station   and   thereafter   they 

returned   to   their   house.  Witness   has   further   deposed   that   on 

08.02.2012 her sister 'M' was brought to Rohini Court and she also 

accompanied her and her sister 'M' was produced before the court 

and her statement was recorded by Ld. MM.   Police recorded her 

statement.   Witness has correctly identified Manoj and Amit in the 

court in the court. 
(10)           In   her   cross­examination   by   Ld.   Defence   counsels, 

witness   has   deposed   that   she   knew   accused   Manoj   prior   to   the 

incident for about one month.  She admits that Manoj came to their 

house   occasionally   and   has   explained   that   he   normally   remained 

there for about 10 to 15 minutes but he never stayed in their house in 

the late hours. According to her, she did not knew Amit prior to the 

incident nor she ever made any call to Amit.     Witness has further 

deposed that her younger sister had made a call to the police on 100 

number and her name is Akeena who is aged about 19 years and 'M' 

is younger than Akeena for about 5 to 7 years.   According to her 

when they made inquiries from 'M', she told   them that somebody 

called her and one vehicle came near her and she stopped there and 

Manoj pushed her in the said vehicle and they took her.  According 

to her, the accused Amit was arrested after 5 - 6 days. Witness has 

denied the suggestion that nothing happened with 'M' by the accused 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 14
 Manoj   and   Amit   or   that   'M'   was   tutored   in   the   night   hours   and 

subsequently produced before the police on the next day.   Witness 

has admitted that she is not the eye witness to the incident happened 

with 'M'.
(11)           PW19   Zarina  is   the   mother   of   prosecutrix.   She   has 

deposed   that   she   is   residing   at   the   address   mentioned   in   her 

testimony   in   Delhi   along   with   her   family   comprising   of   four 

daughters and one son.  Her eldest child is a son and 'M' (prosecutrix) 

is her third child.   She did not recollect the date but states that her 

daughter 'M' had gone to bring milk at around 7.00 PM but did not 

return thereafter.  They searched for her in the area and also waited 

for  her  about   one  to   two hours and  thereafter made a call   to the 

police on 100 number.  It was the police who traced her daughter on 

the same day.  When she returned home, she informed them that two 

boys had raped her one by one in a car but she could not inform them 

about the area.  According to the witness on coming to know of this, 

she took her daughter 'M' to the police station. 

(12)           Ld. Addl. PP for State has put leading questions to the 

witness   with   permission   of   the   court   wherein   the   witness   has 

admitted that the incident is of 06.02.2012 and voluntarily explained 

that she had forgotten the date earlier.  She does not recollect if her 

daughter 'M' was carrying a mobile phone at the time of the incident. 

She also does not recollect if they had dialed her number and were 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                             Page 15
 able   to   speak   to   her   and   she   informed   them   that   she   would   be 

returning home shortly and soon thereafter she returned home with 

two policeman and she voluntarily admitted that she returned home 

with the police officials. She denied that she made her statement to 

the police vide Ex. PW19/PX1 wherein she had mentioned the above 

facts to the police/IO on 07.02.2012.   
(13)           In her cross­examination the witness has deposed that her 

daughter had told her the names of the accused who had committed 

rape   on   her   but   she   does   not   recollect   the   said   names.     She   has 

deposed that she did not tell to the police officials the names of any 

of the boys and voluntarily explained that she did not remain at the 

police   station   for   long   and   returned   to   her   house.     She   further 

deposed that her marriage took place in Delhi but the year she does 

not recollect and voluntarily deposed that it must have taken place 

around 30 years ago.  She has deposed that her eldest child / son was 

born after about  three  years of her marriage and he is around 25 

years  of  age at present and her youngest child / daughter is aged 

around 10­12 years and the prosecutrix 'M' is aged around 15 years. 

She has stated that 'M' used to go to school but she does not recollect 

what was her date of birth mentioned in the school record. According 

to the witness she did not go to the school for the admission of 'M' 

and has voluntarily explained that her elder daughter had gone for 

her (prosecutrix) admission and she is the one who must have given 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                                Page 16
 the date of birth of 'M' in the school.  She has further deposed that 'M' 

used   to   go   for   fetching   milk   only   sometimes   and   has   voluntarily 

explained that at times her other daughters used to go and sometimes 

'M' used to go.  She has admitted that 'M' has a mobile phone but she 

does not know its number.  She has also admitted 'M' had taken her 

mobile   phone   with   her   when   she   had   gone   to   fetch   milk   and 

voluntarily deposed that, that is how they could speak to her on the 

mobile.  She denied that her daughter 'M' frequently and voluntarily 

went out alone and were suspicious when she did not return and that 

is why they were making telephone calls to her.   She admits that 

when her daughter was brought back by police, they (police) returned 

back but she denied that they told them that they did not want any 

action and voluntarily deposed that her daughter told police what had 

happened with her but they went away without taking any action and 

that   is   why   they   had   taken   her   daughter   to   police   station   in   the 

morning.  
(14)           PW20   Rehman  is   the   father   of   prosecutrix.   He   has 

deposed that he is residing at  House of Jain, in the gali in front of 

Shilpa Gas Agency, Utsav Vihar, Karala, Delhi, since last 20 years 

and he is a labourer and working in a pipe factory.  According to him 

his daughter 'M' had gone missing about 10 to 12 months back in this 

year  (exact  date  and  month he does  not  remember)  on which his 

children   telephoned   him   and   he   returned   home   from   his   job   and 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                                Page 17
 thereafter his children telephoned to 'M' who told them that she was 

lifted by two persons.   The witness has deposed that thereafter his 

children informed the police at 100 number after which police along 

with his relatives got recovered his daughter 'M' from the Nala of 

Budh   Vihar.     According   to   the   witness,   his   daughter   'M'   had 

informed   that   some   wrong   thing   had   happened   with   her.   He   has 

deposed that due to night hours, the police left his daughter and went 

away and on the next day in the morning, his daughter 'M' and her 

mother went to police station and police recorded her statement.

(15)           Leading questions were put by Ld. Addl. PP for the State 

with permission of the Court wherein the witness has admitted that 

the date of incident is 06.02.2012.   Witness has admitted that he is 

illiterate that is why he could not tell the exact date of incident.

(16)           In his cross examination by Ld. Defence counsel, witness 

has deposed that he used to go to his work at about 9.00 AM and 

returned at 9.00 PM.   He has stated that he was not present at his 

house when 'M' went to purchase the milk.   He has stated that his 

daughter 'M' was having mobile phone on those days. Witness has 

denied the suggestion that he did not receive any telephone call from 

his house with regard to the missing of his daughter 'M'.     Witness 

has further deposed that it was 9.00 PM when he received the phone 

from his house regarding missing of 'M' and his daughter Sakeena 

telephoned the police of 100 number and  his statement was recorded 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                         Page 18
 at his house.  According to him he did not know the accused Manoj 

and Amit prior to the incident and  his statement was not read over to 

him by the police.


Medical Evidence:
(17)           PW6 Dr. Rajesh Dalal has deposed that on 07.02.2012, 

Manoj   was   produced   before   him   by   SI   Rajesh   for   his   medical 

examination   and   he   examined   Manoj   vide   MLC  Ex.PX­5  and   he 

gave his opinion at point bracketed X showing that there was nothing 

to   suggest   that   the   person   is   not   capable   of   performing   sexual 

intercourse.   This witness was not cross­examined on behalf of the 

accused persons despite opportunity.
(18)           PW11   Dr.   Rashmi   Verma  has   deposed   that   on 

07.02.2012 he was posted at the Sanjay Gandhi Hospital and on that 

day the prosecutrix 'M' was brought at the Casualty of the Hospital 

by SI Rajesh Kumar with alleged history of sexual assault and she 

was medically examined at the Casualty by Dr. P.C. Prabhakar, who 

prepared   the   MLC  Ex.PW11/A  and   referred   'M'   to   Gynae 

Department for further examination and management. According to 

the witness, she medically examined the above­said 'M' with alleged 

history   of   sexual   assault   on   06.02.2012   at   10:00   PM   and   has 

mentioned the alleged history in the MLC and she examined 'M' and 



State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                          Page 19
 gave her observation at portion X to X1 of Ex.PW11/A.  The witness 

has   deposed   that   on   the   local   examination,   she   did   not   find   any 

external injuries however on per­vagina examination, she found the 

hymen   ruptured.     According   to   the   witness   after   her   medical 

examination,   she   has   taken   the   public   hair,   nail   clippings,   vulva 

swabs, vagina swabs and vagina smears and the clothings i.e. salwar, 

kurta, brazier and jacket and the blood sample of the prosecutrix and 

handed over the same to the police in sealed condition with the seal 

of hospital along with the sample seal. This witness was also not 

cross­examined on behalf of the accused persons despite opportunity.

(19)           PW12   Dr.   P.C.   Prabhakar  has   deposed   that   on 

07.02.2012   at   about   10­20   a.m.   SI   Rajesh   Kumar   brought   the 

prosecutrix 'M' to the hospital with alleged history of sexual assault 

on   06.02.2012   at   about   10   p.m.   According   to   the   witness   he 

medically examined above said 'M' and prepared her MLC No. 1381 

which is  Ex. PW­11/A.   He has deposed that he did not find any 

fresh external injuries over the exposed part of the body of 'M' and 

referred   her   to   Gyane   department   for   further   examination   and 

management. This witness was also not cross­examined on behalf of 

the accused persons despite opportunity.
(20)           PW13   Dr.   Brijesh   Singh  has   deposed   that   on 

09.02.2012   the   accused   Amit   was   brought   at   the   hospital   by   Ct. 

Sudhir   for   medical   examination   as   he   was   involved   in   a   case   of 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                             Page 20
 sexual   assault.     According  to  the  witness,  he  medically  examined 

Amit at about 12­35 a.m. and prepared his MLC No. 2305 which is 

Ex. PX6  and observed that there was nothing to suggest that Amit 

cannot   perform   the   act   of   sexual   intercourse.   The   witness   has 

deposed that he took blood sample and undergarments of Amit and 

handed over the same to the police in sealed condition with the seal 

of hospital.  This witness was also not cross­examined on behalf of 

the accused persons despite opportunity.


Forensic Evidence:
(21)           PW7   Dharamveer   Kapoor  has   deposed   that   on 

13.02.2011  he along  with Sh. V. Shankaranaryanan, inspected the 

Hundai   Accent   Car   bearing   No.   DL2C­W2698,   Engine   No. 

G4EB2A39181 Chasis No. MALCG 41 GR 2MO 52793*K which 

was   brought   to   the   FSL,   Rohini   and   after   inspection,   Sh.   V. 

Shankaranaryana   gave   his   report  Ex.PW­7/A.  In   his   cross 

examination, the witness has admitted that the above said report does 

not bears his signatures. He has denied that he did not participate in 

the inspection of the vehicle and that it is for this reason that the 

above said report does not bear his signatures.

(22)           PW8   V.   Sankarabarayanan  has   deposed   that   on 

13.02.2011   he   inspected   the   Hyundai   Accent   Car   bearing   No. 

DL2CW 2698 Engine No. G. 4EB2A 39181 Chasis No. MALCG 14 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                        Page 21
 GR 2MO 52793*K and gave his report as  Ex.PW7/A.  In his cross 

examination, he has denied that he has given the report on the asking 

of the Investigating Officer.
(23)           PW14   Shashi   Bala   Pahuja  has   deposed   that  on 

10.07.2012 seven sealed parcels were received in DNA Unit from 

Biology Division in the present case which were assigned to her for 

examination and the seals were intact as per the forwarding letter. 

She   has   deposed   that   she   opened   the   parcels   and   examined   the 

exhibits and gave his detailed report Ex.PW14/A.  According to the 

witness, the exhibits 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, 1e, 1f, 1g, 1h, 1i1, 1i2, 1j, 1k, 1l, 

1m, 1n1, 1n2, 1n3, 1n4, 1o, 1p, 3, 7, 8 and 10 were subjected to DNA 

isolation.   She further deposed that the DNA was isolated from the 

source of exhibits 1b, 1d, 1e, 1h, 1i1, 1i2, 1n1, 1o, 1p, 3 and 10.  She 

has further deposed that DNA could not be isolated from the source 

of exhibits 1a, 1c, 1f, 1g, 1j, 1k, 1l, 1m, 1n2, 1n3, 1n4, 7 and 8. 

According   to   the   witness   the   DNA   Fingerprinting   profile   was 

generated from the source of exhibits 1b, 1e, 1h, 1i1, 1i2, 1n1, 1o, 

1p,   3   and   10,   however,   DNA  Fingerprinting   profile   could   not   be 

generated from the source of exhibit 1d, due to non­amplification. 

The witness has deposed that the STR analysis was used for each of 

the sample and the data was analyzed by using Genemapper ID­X 

Software.   The witness has deposed that the alleles from the source 

of Exhibit '3' (i.e. blood sample of accused Manoj) are accounted in 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                          Page 22
 the profile generated on the source of the exhibit 1b (i.e. right valval 

swab), Ex.1c (i.e. left vaginal swab), Ex.1h (i.e. high vaginal swab), 

Ex.1il and Ex.1i2 (i.e. vaginal smear slides), Ex.1L (i.e. Salwar) and 

Ex.10   (i.e.   Baniyan).   According   to   the   witness   the   DNA 

Fingerprinting profile generated from the source of exhibit 1b (i.e. 

right   valval  swab),   Ex.1c (i.e. left  vaginal  swab), Ex.1h (i.e. high 

vaginal swab), Ex.1il and Ex.1i2 (i.e. vaginal smear slides), Ex.1L 

(i.e.   Salwar)   and   Ex.10   (i.e.   Baniyan)  and   DNA   Fingerprinting 

profile generated from the source of exhibit '3' (i.e. blood sample of 

accused Manoj)  is sufficient to conclude that the  Exhibits '3'  (i.e.  

blood sample of accused Manoj)  is responsible for the biological 

stains present on the source of Exhibits 1b, 1e, 1h, 1i1, 1i2, 1n1 

and  10.  This witness was also not cross­examined on behalf of the 

accused persons despite opportunity.


Police / Official Witnesses:
(24)           PW1   HC   Rajbir   Singh  has   been   examined  way   of 

affidavit which is Ex. PW1/1.  He was posted as MHC (M) and has 

proved the various entires in Register No. 19 and 21.  He has proved 

the entries in Register No. 19 bearing No. 1595/12 copy of which is 

Ex.PW1/A, serial No. 1598/12 copy of which is Ex. PW1/B, serial 

No. 1601/12 copy of which is  Ex. PW1/C  and   serial No. 1616/12 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                     Page 23
 copy   of   which   is  Ex.   PW1/D.   He  has  also   relied  upon  entry  in 

Register No. 21 vide RC No. 4/21/12 copy of which is Ex. PW1/E 

and RC No. 5/21/12 copy of which is Ex. PW1/F. He further relied 

upon   on   the   acknowledgment   issued   by   FSL,   copy   of   which   is 

Ex.PW1/G.   This witness was also not cross­examined on behalf of 

the accused persons despite opportunity.
(25)           PW2   ASI   Dharambir   Singh  has  tendered   his 

examination in chief by way of affidavit which  Ex.PW2/1  bearing 

his signatures at points A and B. He relied upon documents i.e. FIR 

No. 23/12, copy of which is Ex.PW2/A bearing his signature at point 

A and endorsement on rukka which is Ex.PW2/B. This witness was 

also   not   cross­examined  on  behalf  of  the  accused persons  despite 

opportunity granted.
(26)           PW3 SI Ashwani Kumar has tendered his examination 

in   chief   by   way   of   affidavit   which   is  Ex.PW3/1  bearing   his 

signatures at points A and B. According to him on the intervening 

night of 6/7.2.2012 he was working as Duty Officer and at about 6:45 

AM,  the  complainant   along with her mother and sister who were 

interrogated by SI Rajesh Kumar.   This witness was also not cross­

examined on behalf of the accused persons despite opportunity. 

(27)           PW4 Ct. Sunil Kumar has tendered his examination in 

chief by way of affidavit which is Ex.PW4/1 bearing his signatures 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                       Page 24
 at points A and B.    He has proved the registration of DD No. 82B 

copy   of   which   is  Ex.PW4/A.  This   witness   was   also   not   cross­

examined on behalf of the accused persons despite opportunity.

(28)           PW16 Ct. Kanta has deposed that on 07.02.2012, on the 

directions  of  SI  Rajesh, she had gone to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital, 

Mangolpuri   along   with   the   prosecutrix   'M'   where   her   medical 

examination was got conducted and thereafter the doctor handed over 

the exhibits to IO/SI Rajesh Kumar in sealed pullandas, which were 

seized by the IO vide seizure memo Ex.PW16/A.
(29)           In   her   cross­examination,   she   has   deposed   that   they 

started from the police station at 9:15 AM and it took about 30­45 

minutes to reach at the hospital by official vehicle but she did not 

make any separate departure entry when she left the police station. 

She has denied that she did not accompany the IO to the hospital and 

it   is   for   this   reason   that   the   seizure   memo   does   not   bears   her 

signatures. 
(30)           PW 17 Ct. Raj Kumar has deposed that on 07.02.2012 

he was posted at Police Station Kanjhawala and on that day at about 

4.00 PM Duty Officer ASI Dharambir handed over him copy of FIR 

and   original   rukka   to   him   for   handing   over   the   same   to   the 

investigating  officer and he reached near the spot and handed over 

the same to the investigating officer.  The witness has not been cross 

examined   by   the   Ld.   Defence  Counsel  despite opportunity in this 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 25
 regard and his testimony has gone uncontroverted. 

(31)           PW21   SI   Naresh   Kumar  has   deposed   that   on 

08.02.2012 he was handed over the investigations of the present case 

by the SHO.  According to him he interrogated Manoj with regard to 

the   details   of   the   co­accused   Amit   and   Manoj   informed   him   that 

Amit   was   known   to   him  but   he  could  get  him   apprehended.   The 

witness has deposed that he prepared a police raiding party at about 

9.00 PM comprising of himself, Ct. Sudhir and one home guard and 

they all along with the accused Manoj went to Mangolpuri in the 

official   vehicle   driven   by   the   official   driver.     According   to   the 

witness, there Manoj took them to the public park at I­Block and 

pointed out towards three boys, who were smoking cigarettes out of 

whom one of them was Amit and Manoj pointed out the boy holding 

a cigarette in his hand as Amit after which they apprehended Amit 

and   he   was   interrogated   after   which   he   was   arrested   vide   memo 

Ex.PW21/A,  his  personal   search   was   conducted   vide   memo 

Ex.PW21/B and after detailed interrogation his disclosure statement 

was recorded vide Ex.PW21/C. The witness has further deposed that 

on   further   inquiries   Amit   disclosed   that   the   vehicle   in   question 

belonged to his chacha / son of his chacha which vehicle was parked 

at   the   road   near   I­Block.   According   to   the   witness   he   thereafter 

accompanied accused Amit to the I­Block road where Amit pointed 

out   towards   a  black   color   Accent   car  bearing  No.  DL­2CW­2698 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 26
 which was seized vide memo Ex.PW21/D.  The witness has deposed 

that Amit was medically examined at SGM hospital and the doctor 

handed over to him exhibits of Amit in the sealed pullanda which he 

seized vide memo   Ex.PW21/E.   The witness has deposed that he 

also   prepared   the   pointing   out   memo   of   the   said   vehicle   by   the 

prosecutrix   which   is  Ex.   PW10/B.    He   has   identified   both   the 

accused in the court.   He also identified the car i.e. black Accent 

bearing No. DL­2CW­2698, which is  Ex.P5.
(32)           In his cross­examination  he has deposed that they have 

started from the police station at about 9.00 PM and reached at the 

park   near   I­Block   at   about   10.00   PM.  He   has   deposed   there   was 

sufficient light in the park, which was coming from light installed in 

the   park   when   accused  Amit   was   pointed   out   by   accused   Manoj. 

According   to   him,   the   distance   between   the   police   team   and   the 

accused Amit was 60­70 feet. The witness has deposed that Amit did 

not try to run away from the spot and has voluntarily explained that 

they did not show to him that they were coming to apprehend him 

and he was taken by surprise and therefore there was no opportunity 

for him to run away. He has denied that the accused Manoj had made 

no disclosure statement regarding having any knowledge of Amit or 

that the accused Amit was called to the police station and falsely 

implicated in the present case only because his vehicle has been used 

by other persons in the commission of the offence. He has further 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 27
 denied that Amit had not made any disclosure statement to the police 

and that both accused Manoj and Amit have been falsely implicated 

in the present case.
(33)           PW22   SI   Rajesh   Kumar  has   deposed   that   on 

06.02.2012 at about 11.00 PM, he received DD No.82 B that three 

boys had lifted the sister of the informer from Utsav Vihar near Devi 

Sangram   Ashram   in   front   of   Shilpa   Gas   Agency   Police   Chowki. 

According to the witness on receiving the information, he along with 

Ct. Jagdish and driver Ct. Rajvir Singh left the police station in the 

official vehicle and met the complainant and other family members 

who informed him that their daughter 'M' had gone to purchase milk 

at   about   7.00   PM   and   did   not   return   thereafter.   The   witness   has 

deposed that the father of prosecutrix 'M' namely Rehman told him 

that his elder daughter saw three boys talking with 'M' few days back 

that is why due to suspicion they made a call to the PCR regarding 

the three boys however he could not tell the details of those three 

boys. According to the witness, he along with the family members of 

'M' tried to contact 'M' on her mobile phone and after some time 

family members contacted to 'M' on mobile and talked with 'M' and 

she told them that she was coming.   The witness has deposed that 

thereafter   the   beat   staff   Ct.   Sudhir     along   with   Sakeena   brought 

prosecutrix 'M' from Budh Vihar while talking 'M' on her mobile. 

The witness has deposed that the father of the prosecutrix told that 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                             Page 28
 his daughter is safe and no mis­happening had been done with her 

that is why they left the prosecutrix 'M' there and returned to police 

station.  
(34)           The witness has further deposed that on the next day at 

about 7.40 AM, he was called by the Duty Officer in the DO room 

where complainant 'M', her mother Zarina Begum and her elder sister 

Sakeena were present there.  According to him the duty Officer told 

him   that   the   prosecutrix   'M'   and   her   relatives   told   him   about   the 

commission of galat kaam with her on 06.02.2012 in the night hours. 

The witness has deposed that he made enquiries from the prosecutrix 

'M'   and   called   the   NGO   Ms.   Anuradha   who   reached   there   and 

counselled   the   prosecutrix   and   thereafter   her   statement   vide 

Ex.PW9/A  was   recorded   by   him   in   the   presence   of   NGO   Mrs. 

Anuradha bearing his signatures at point C. The witness has deposed 

that   thereafter   the   Subsequently   'M'   was   taken   to   SGM   Hospital 

along with Lady Ct. Kanta and her elder sister Sakeena for medical 

examination   and   after   medical   examination,   doctor   handed   over 

MLC and sealed envelop containing the exhibits with sample seal 

which   were   taken   into   possession   vide   memo  Ex.PW16/A. 

According to the witness they returned back to the police station and 

he prepared rukka Ex.PW22/A and handed over the same to the Duty 

Officer   for   registration   of   FIR   and   thereafter   he   along   with   Ct. 

Sudhir, prosecutrix 'M' and her sister Sakeena went to the place of 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                               Page 29
 occurrence   from   where   she   was   lifted.   He   prepared   the   site  plan 

Ex.PW10/A  at the instance of prosecutrix 'M' and thereafter at the 

instance of prosecutrix the accused Manoj was arrested vide memo 

Ex.PW22/B,  his   personal   search   was   conducted   vide   memo 

Ex.PW22/C  and   his  disclosure   statement   was   recorded   vide 

Ex.PW22/D.  According to the witness, on the basis of the disclosure 

statement of accused Manoj, they went to the house of co­accused 

Amit at Budh Vihar but the house was found locked and when they 

were returning,  in the  mid­way at Shilpa Gas Agency chowki, he 

recorded   statement   of   'M'   and   her   sister   Shakeela   and   they   were 

discharged   after   which   the   accused   Manoj   was   taken   to   SGM 

Hospital   and   his   medical   examination   was   got   conducted   and   his 

exhibits were collected in three sealed parcels with sample seal and 

the same were taken into possession vide seizure memo Ex.PW22/E. 

According to the witness he got recorded statement of prosecutrix 

U/s 164 Cr. PC.  He has deposed that on 08.02.2012 in the evening, 

the file was handed over to SI Naresh as per direction of the senior 

officers. 
(35)           According   to   the   witness,   on   10.02.2012   he   received 

back   the   file   for   further   investigation.     He   has   deposed   that   on 

13.02.2012 the vehicle Hyundai Accent number DL 2C W 2698 was 

taken   from   the   MHC   (M)   vide   RC   No.   4/21/12   and   vehicle   was 

produced before the FSL Rohini where the vehicle was inspected by 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                             Page 30
 the   FSL   team   and   thereafter   they   handed   over   one   baniyan   type 

garment found inside the car which was seized by him vide memo 

Ex.PW22/F.  The  witness  has  deposed  that  on  14.02.2012,  he  got 

deposited the case property through Ct. Sudhir after obtaining the 

same from MHC (M) to FSL for analysis.   He has deposed that the 

accused Manoj pointed out the place of occurrence from where they 

recovered the prosecutrix vide pointing out memo  Ex.PW22/H. He 

has  identified the accused Manoj and Amit in the court.   He also 

identified the Salwar  Ex.P­1, Kurta  Ex.P­2  and Jacket  Ex.P­4. He 

also identified the baniyan, which got recovered by the FSL authority 

from the car bearing no. DL 2 CW 2698 as  Ex.P­6  and said car as 

Ex.P­5.
(36)           In   his   cross­examination   this   witness   has   deposed   that 

when he met the prosecutrix for the first, she was at her house and 

there was nobody else from the police station.  He admits that when 

he questioned the prosecutrix she did not tell anything.   He further 

admits that when he met the prosecutrix she did not appear to be 

under any pressure or fear and she also did not give him the name of 

any   accused   on   that   day.     He   has   deposed   that   on   the   next   day 

morning, the prosecutrix had come to the police station along with 

her mother and sister Sakeena. He admits that the allegations against 

the   accused   were   made by the  prosecutrix in the presence  of  her 

family members and after counselling of the NGO.   He has further 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 31
 admitted that when accused Manoj was apprehended on the pointing 

out of the prosecutrix, he did not try to resist. He has denied that the 

accused Manoj did not make any disclosure statement and that the 

same was recorded by him of his own.  He has further denied that the 

accused Manoj has been falsely implicated by them in connivance 

with the family of the prosecutrix.  He did not get the ossification test 

of the prosecutrix conducted. According to him, the date of birth of 

the prosecutrix  was ascertained on the basis of school  record and 

admitted that no date of birth certificate was given to them by the 

family of the prosecutrix.  He further denied that wrong date of birth 

of the prosecutrix has been given by him only to falsely implicate the 

accused persons in the present case.


STATEMENT OF ACCUSED & DEFENCE EVIDENCE :
(37)           After completion of prosecution evidence the statement 

of   both   the   accused   were   recorded   under   Section   313   Cr.P.C. 

wherein all incriminating evidence were put to them which they have 

denied.  
(38)           The accused Manoj has stated that he was known to the 

prosecutrix and her family previously including her sister, brother 

and parents.  He has further stated that he frequently used to meet her 

family including her sister Sakina even outside the house and her 

family had no objection to the same to the prosecutrix and her elder 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                      Page 32
 sister Sakina going out with him. According to him on the date of the 

incident   the   prosecutrix   made   complaint   against   him,   he   did   not 

kidnap her and had rather along with his friends helped her family to 

search   for   her   along   with   her   elder   sister   Sakina   and   one   police 

officer   from   Police   Station   Begumpur.     The   accused   has   further 

stated that other public persons are also a witness to this incident 

when he along with his friends and Sakina along with one police 

official had gone to search for the prosecutrix after they had come to 

his house.  The accused Manoj states that he is innocent and has been 

falsely implicated at the instance of some other girl with malafide 

intention.
(39)           According to accused Amit he is innocent and has been 

falsely implicated.  He has stated that the police officials first called 

his mother to the police station for making some inquiries and later 

they   called   him   also   and   falsely   implicated   in   this   case.     He   has 

further stated that he has nothing to do with the alleged incident. 

(40)           The accused Manoj has examined three witnesses in his 

defence.  DW1 Rajesh Kumar  has deposed that he know accused 

Manoj from childhood.  According to him on 6.2.2012 at about 7 to 

7:30 PM in his presence the accused Manoj was taken away by one 

Sukhbir from Police Station Begumpur and two girls namely Renu 

and Sakina.  In his cross examination this witness has deposed that he 

knew Renu and Sakina previously as he had seen them with Manoj. 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                                Page 33
 He has denied the suggestion that he has deposed falsely.

(41)           DW2 Ram Pyarey   has deposed that on th intervening 

night of  6/7.2.2011  at about 2:30 AM (midnight) he woke up for 

toilet when he heard noise in the gali on which he came out of the 

house and saw that two police officials and one girl were present in 

the neighbouring house bearing No. M­559, Mangolpuri, belonging 

to Ajay Yadav.  According to him, in the morning he came to know 

that   police   had   taken   away   Manoj.     In   his   cross   examination   the 

witness has deposed that he is known to Manoj from childhood being 

the resident of the same area.   He deposed that he did not ask the 

police officials as to why they came there nor he made any complaint 

to any senior officials of police or to any court regarding lifting of 

Manoj   by   the  police.     He  admits  that   he  cannot  comment   on  the 

correctness   or   falsity   of   allegation   against   Manoj   because   is   not 

aware of the same.
(42)           DW3   HC   Sukhbir  has   deposed   that   he   is   posted   at 

Police Station Begumpur for three years and he know the accused 

Manoj as he is the secret informer of the police and had helped him 

in a robbery case.  According to the witness he is aware of the facts 

of the present case.  He has deposed that on the relevant day (date he 

does not recollect), he had received a call from one Sakina who was 

previously known to him as she used to frequently come to the police 

station   along  with  Manoj and Sakina told him that her sister was 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 34
 missing on which he told them that he was on leave but he would 

inform the SHO.   According to the witness he then called up the 

SHO and informed him about the facts conveyed to him by Sakina 

regarding   her   missing   sister   on   which   the   SHO   told   him   to   take 

somebody from the police station and search for the girl on which he 

took Ct. Ram Avtar from the police station and he along with Renu 

and Sakina went to search her sister. According to the witness, Renu 

expressed her suspicion on Manoj  on which he called up Manoj 

and asked him where he was on which he told him that he was at 

Sanjay   Gandhi   Hospital   on   which   they   went   to   Sanjay   Gandhi 

Hospital   from   where   they   picked   up   Manoj.     \The   witness   has 

deposed that Sakina still expressed her suspicion on Manoj and 

said that Manoj had passed on her sister to some other boy by 

the name of Amit and he himself in order to create an alibi / 

defence has come to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital.   According to the 

witness, Manoj remained with them thereafter till the girl was got 

recovered from  Budh Vihar ganda nala  from where the girl was 

recovered by officers of Police Station Kanjhawla.  The witness has 

deposed   that   when   they   picked   up   Manoj   from   Sanjay   Gandhi 

Hospital it was already dark / night time.
(43)           In his cross examination by Ld. Addl. PP for the State, 

the witness has deposed that accused had only helped in one case and 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 35
 he cannot tell if he was otherwise providing assistance to the police 

in other cases as well but he cannot tell if he was a regular police 

informer   of   the   area.     According   to   him   he   only   know   that   the 

accused was residing along with a lady namely Renu.   The witness 

has   deposed   that   he   had   informed   the   SHO   the   details   of   the 

information   received   by   him   and   also   the   suspicion   expressed   by 

Sakina over Manoj.   According to him he had informed the SHO 

orally and not in writing and that the  SHO had orally asked him to 

go   and   assist   in   search   of   the   accused   and   he   did   not   make   any 

rawangi in the police station while leaving for search of the girl and 

has   voluntarily   added   that   he   was   on   leave.     He   has   denied   the 

suggestion that he was only helping out the complainant Sakina in his 

personal   capacity.     He   deposed   that   he   knew   Sakina   because 

previously Renu and Manoj had also come to the police station in 

some personal dispute between them and Sakina used to come with 

Renu.  He has admitted that Renu was in dispute with Manoj and that 

is why their disputes used to come to the police station.  The witness 

has denied that on account of the accused Manoj being his personal 

informer he has tired to save him.  


FINDINGS:
(44)           I have heard the arguments advanced before me by the 

Ld. Addl. PP for the State and the Ld. Defence Counsel.  I have also 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                                Page 36
 considered   the   testimonies   of   various   witnesses   examined   by   the 

prosecution and memorandum of arguments filed on behalf of the 

accused.  My findings are as under: 


Identity of the Accused:
(45)           Both   the   accused   have   been   specifically   named   in   the 

FIR.  They have also been named by the prosecutrix in her statement 

to the Investigating Officer, to the Ld. Magistrate under Section 164 

Cr.PC and also in her testimony before the court.   The prosecutrix 

has also correctly identified both the accused Manoj and Amit in the 

court.  In this background, I hold that the identity of both Manoj and 

Amit stands established.


Age of the Prosecutrix:
(46)           The  case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   at   the   time   of   the 

incident, the prosecutrix was hardly aged around 12 to 13 years and 

in this regard the prosecution has placed its reliance on the school 

record   of   the   proseutrix.   Ms.   Shardha   (PW5)  has   produced   the 

admission record of prosecutrix 'M' showing that she was admitted in 

the school on 8th April, 2010 in class 6th copy of which is Ex.PW5/A. 

This witness has also proved that as per their record, the date of birth 

of prosecutrix 'M' is 5th January, 1999 which entry was made on the 

basis of transfer certificate of the primary school. She has proved the 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                                 Page 37
 copy of the pasting file as Ex.PW5/B and the certificate issued by the 

Principal   regarding   the   date  of   birth  as  Ex.PW5/C.    In   the  cross 

examination, this witness has explained that the entry in the school 

register has been made on the basis of SLC. Here I may observe that 

the accused has not been able to controvert the above and there is no 

reason to disbelieve the documentary record reflecting that on the 

date of incident i.e. 6.2.2012 the prosecutrix was 12 years 01 month 

old (had not even arrived the age of consent).


Medical Evidence:
(47)           Dr. Rajesh (PW6) has proved the MLC of the accused 

Manoj wherein he has observed that there was nothing to suggest that 

the accused Manoj was incapable of performing sexual intercourse. 

Dr.   Brijesh   Singh   (PW13)   has   proved   the   MLC  of  accused   Amit 

showing that there was nothing to suggest that the accused Amit was 

incapable of performing sexual intercourse.  
(48)           Dr.   Rashmi   Verma   (PW11)   and   Dr.   P.C.   Prabhakar 

(PW12)   have   proved   the   MLC   of   prosecutrix  Ex.PW11/A.     Dr. 

Rashmi has specifically proved that on local examination she did not 

find any external injury but on per­vagina examination, the hymen 

was found ruptured and after her medical examination she had taken 

the public hair, nail clippings, vulva swabs, vagina swabs and vagina 

smears and the clothings i.e. salwar, kurta, brazier and jacket and the 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                         Page 38
 blood sample of the  prosecutrix and handed over the same to the 

police in sealed condition with the seal of hospital along with the 

sample seal.   Dr. Rashmi has not been cross­examined on behalf of 

the accused either on the aspect of collection of samples and exhibits 

which she handed over to the police in sealed condition or   on the 

aspect of medical examination of the prosecutrix and hence her entire 

testimony has gone uncontroverted.  
(49)           Dr. P. C. Prabhakar (PW12) has confirmed that SI Rajesh 

has brought the prosecutrix to the hospital on 7.2.2012 at about 10­20 

a.m. with alleged history of sexual assault on 06.02.2012 at about 10 

p.m. (i.e. within 24 hours of the incident).   As per the MLC,  the 

prosecutrix herself had given the history to Dr. Rashmi that she 

had  been  sexually  assaulted  by two men at around 10 PM on 

6.2.2012 out of which one was known to her and the police had 

found her and that brought her home at midnight.  The MLC also 

shows that the prosecutrix had also told the doctor that she had not 

taken a bath and also not changed her clothes which she was wearing 

at   the   time   of   incident.     The   medical   examination   record   of   the 

prosecutrix which examination was got conducted within 12 hours of 

the incident, is compatible to the prosecution case and the hymen tear 

confirms the rape having being committed on the minor prosecutrix. 

Further,   the   doctor   having   proved   the   collection   of   the   exhibits   / 

samples and the clothes which the prosecutrix was wearing at the 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 39
 time   of   her   medical   examination   which   clothes   according   to   the 

prosecutrix she had not changed after the incident and the FSL report 

conclusively   connecting   the   accused   Manoj   with   the   offence   the 

prosecution case stands established against him.



Forensic Evidence:
(50)           Sh. Dharamveer Kapoor (PW7) and V. Shankarnarainan 

(PW8) have proved having inspected the Hundai Accent Car bearing 

no.DL2C­W2698, Engine No. G.4EB2A39181, Chassis No. MALCG 

41 GR 2MO 52793*K, and lifted the exhibits which were sent for 

DNA Fingerprinting examination. Ms.  Shashi Bala Pahuja (PW14) 

has proved the DNA Fingerprinting report vide Ex.PW14/A. She has 

proved that DNA Fingerprinting profile generated from the source 

Ex.1b (i.e. right valval swab), Ex.1c (i.e. left vaginal swab), Ex.1h 

(i.e. high vaginal swab), Ex.1il and Ex.1i2 (i.e. vaginal smear slides), 

Ex.1L   (i.e.   Salwar)   and   Ex.10   (i.e.   Baniyan),   were   sufficient   to 

conclude that the blood sample of Manoj i.e. Ex.3 was responsible 

for   the   biological   stains   present   on   the   above   exhibits   of   the 

prosecutrix. 
(51)           This   being   so,   the   DNA   Fingerprinting   report 

conclusively   connects  the  accused  Manoj  to the  offence since the 

biological stains of Manoj were found to be present on the exhibits of 

the prosecutrix and therefore, it is this which conclusively and finally 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                          Page 40
 clinches the issue in so far as the accused Manoj is concerned and 

connects him with the offence committed on the prosecutrix. 


Vehicle used in the Commission of Crime recovered  ­ established:

(52)           The case of the prosecution is that the prosecutrix had 

been kidnapped in the black coloured Hyundai car.   In this regard 

they have relied upon the testimony of Sunder Mohan (PW15) who is 

the   registered   owner   of   the   said   car   bearing   No.   DL2C­W2698, 

Engine   No.   G.4EB2A39181,   Chassis   No.   MALCG   41   GR   2MO 

52793*K which according to the prosecution had been used for the 

commission of the offence.  Sunder Mohan (PW15) has proved that 

his nephew Amit Gupta (accused before this court) who is the son of 

his brother Jitender had taken this car either on 5th  or 6th  February, 

2012 and later on he came to know when he received a call from 

Police   Station   Kanjhawala   that   the   said   car   had   been   used   for 

kidnapping of a girl on which he took this vehicle to Police Station 

Kanjhawala which car is Ex.P5.  Further, the witnesses Dharamveer 

Kapoor   (PW7)   and   V.   Shankarnarainan   (PW8)   proved   having 

inspected the above vehicle on 13.2.2012 and lifted the exhibits from 

the same.
(53)           Here I may observe that when the above incriminating 

evidence was put to the accused Amit in his statement under Section 

313 Cr.PC, he did not explain how the vehicle belonging to his uncle 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                          Page 41
 which   he   had   taken   on   the   date   of   incident,   was   used   in   the 

commission of offence of rape in the same. There is no reason why 

Surender Mohan (PW15) the real uncle / Chacha of the accused Amit 

would   tell   a   lie   in   the   court   and   say   something   which   would 

incriminate and implicate his own nephew.   In fact Sunder Mohan 

has proved that it was Amit who had taken the vehicle on the date of 

incident.  If this be so then it is a fact within the special knowledge of 

the Amit as to where he took this vehicle and how it was used in the 

offence.  It is writ large that Amit is not coming out with the details 

and   hence   under   the   given   circumstances   there   is   no   reason   to 

disbelieve the version put forward by the prosecutrix that she was 

kidnapped in this car driven by Amit in which she was first raped by 

the accused Manoj and thereafter Manoj went away and Amit kept on 

driving her at various places and then raped her and dropped her at 

ganda nala Mangolpuri.  
(54)           The prosecutrix has in her testimony specified that she 

was   picked   up   in   the   black  coloured  vehicle   driven  by  Amit   and 

Surender Mohan has confirmed that on the evening of the incident 

Amit had taken his vehicle i.e. black coloured Accent Car  Ex.P­5 

which   he   has   identified   in   the   Court.     I   therefore   hold   that   the 

prosecution has been able to established that the prosecutrix had been 

kidnapped by the accused in this black coloured Hyundai Accent Car 

bearing   No.   DL­2CW­2698   in   which   she   was   first   raped   by   the 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                               Page 42
 accused Manoj and then by the accused Amit.


Allegations against the accused:
(55)           The   case   of   the   prosecution   is   that   the   prosecutrix   a 

young girl of about 12­13 years had been kidnapped on 6.2.2012 at 

about   6:30   PM   by   the   accused   of   which   Manoj   was   previously 

known to the family of the prosecutrix and thereafter gang raped in 

black coloured Hyundai Accent Car firstly by the accused Manoj and 

then by the accused Amit.  In the meanwhile her family was alerted 

on account of her absence as she did not return for a long time on 

which they started to search for her in the area and after lodged a 

missing report.   The sister of the prosecutrix namely Sakina joined 

the said search along with Renu and had her suspicion on accused 

Manoj.  She throughout kept on telling the police that it was Manoj 

who had taken her sister and had passed her on to some other person. 

The prosecutrix 'M' was thereafter recovered on the same day with 

the help of the local police at about 12 midnight.  It is admitted by 

the family of the prosecutrix that when she went to fetch milk she 

was carrying her mobile.  Sakina has also admitted that she had made 

a   call   to   the   prosecutrix   on   her   mobile   phone   and   it   was   the 

prosecutrix who informed her that she had been kidnapped by two 

boys.  She also admits that it was the prosecutrix who had ultimately 

informed her on the mobile phone that she had been dropped at some 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 43
 place   near   ganda   nala   Mangol   Puri   from   where   ultimately   the 

prosecutrix was recovered.  
(56)           It is also the case of the prosecution that the prosecutrix 

on her return immediately at the first instance did not disclose about 

the incident to anyone but within a few hours she disclosed about the 

incident to her sister and mother after which police was informed at 

about 7:30 AM, her medical examination was got conducted and her 

statement under Section 164 Cr.PC was got recorded.   

(57)           Coming first to the deposition of the prosecutrix which 

has been recorded in vernacular (Hindi), relevant portion of which is 

reproduced as under:

                At   this   stage   prosecutrix   had   identified   her  
                statement  Ex.PW­12/B  bearing her signatures at  
                point   A.  Maine  Jo   Kali   Rang   Ki   Gari   Jiska  
                Number Yaad Nahi Hai, Pehchani Thi.  Witness  

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                        Page 45
                 had identified her signatures on the pointing out  
                memo   which   is  Ex.   PW­10/B  bearing   her  
                signatures at point A. At this stage the witness has  
                informed   that   the   doctor   had  seized   her   clothes  
                during   the   medical   examination   and   she   can  
                identify the same.  I can identify my clothes which  
                were taken by the doctor ."

(58)           The   prosecutrix   has   been   exhaustively   cross­examined 

and explained that she was known to Manoj even prior to the incident 

being friend of her Jija and used to visit their house.   She has also 

admitted   that   when   she  returned  home  she did  not   tell  her  father 

about the incident but only disclosed the incident to her mother and 

sister and has explained that she did not inform her father because 

she did not talk about such things with her father.  (kyonki papa se is  

tarah   ki   baat   nahi   karti   thi).     Here,   I   may   observe   that   this 

explanation given by the prosecutrix a young girl of hardly 12­13 

years is natural and probable.  She has further proved that the police 

was informed by her sister who made a call at 100 number and has 

denied   the   suggestion   that   she   has   falsely   implicated   the   accused 

because her father caught her while talking on two to three occasions 

2 to 3 days prior of the incident and was annoyed of the same. 

(59)           I   may   observe   that  in   her   earlier   statement  to  the  Ld. 

Magistrate   under   Section   164   Cr.PC,   the   prosecutrix   had   given   a 

similar version which statement is reproduced as under:


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                             Page 46
                 " ... parson sham 7 baje jab mai doodh lene jane  
                wali thi toh Manoj ka phone hamare mobile par  
                aya, usne mujhse meri did ke bare mie poocha.  
                Maine kaha ki didi ghar par hi hai. Fir mai doodh  
                lene chali gaye. Raste mai kaali gadi mili.  Gadi  
                mae se Manoj nikal kar aya aur usne mujhe gadi  
                mei dhakel diya aur dhamkaya.  Gadi mie ek Amit  
                naam ka ladka tha.  Fir ve mujhe sun­saan jagah  
                par le gaye. Wahan Amit kuch saaman lene chala  
                gaya aur Manoj ne pere kapde utar diye aur mere  
                sath galat kaam kiya.  Usne meri pesab karne wali  
                jagah   mie   apne   pesab   karne   wali   jagah   daali.  
                Kuch der baad Amit aa gaya aur tab Manoj chala  
                gaya.  Tab Amit ne mere sath vaisa he kiya jaisa  
                Manoj ne kiya tha.  Uske baad usne mujhe bhaga  
                diya.  Jaise taise mai apne ghar aa gaye aur apne  
                ghar   par   sari   baat   batai.   Mere   ghar   walon   ne  
                police mei report karai".

(60)           The prosecutrix has been exhaustively cross examined in 

the court and it is writ large that she has supported the case of the 

prosecution.  She has specifically named both the accused Manoj and 

Amit in her statement.   Before coming to the merits of the case, I 

may observe that conviction can be based upon the sole testimony of 

the   prosecutrix   if   found   credible   and   truthful.   In   this   regard   the 

Hon'ble Supreme Court has in the case of  State of Rajasthan Vs.  

Biram Lal reported in 2005 AIR (SC) 2327 held that:

                "........It is not the law that in every case version of  
                the prosecutrix must be corroborated in material  


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 47
                 particulars by independent evidence on record. It  
                all depends on the quality of the evidence of the  
                prosecutrix.   If   the   court   is   satisfied   that   the  
                evidence of prosecutrix is free from blemish and is  
                implicitly reliable, then on the sole testimony of 
                the prosecutrix, the conviction can be recorded. In  
                appropriate   cases,   the   Court   may   look   for  
                corroboration from independent sources or from  
                the circumstances of the case before recording an  
                order   of   conviction.   In   the   instant   case   the  
                allegations   were   that   the   accused   during   night  
                entered the prosecutrix room and committed rape  
                on her, the evidence of the prosecution was found  
                worthy of credit and implicitly reliable....."



(61)           In the year 2006 the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of 

State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. Asha Ram reported in AIR 2006 SC  

381 had observed that:
(62)           It was further observed by the Hon'ble Court that:

(63)           Further, in the case of  Vishnu Vs. State of Maharastra 

reported in 2006 AIR (SC) 508 it was observed by the Hon'ble Apex 

Court that:
(64)           Also in the case of Bharwada Boginbhai Hirji Bhai Vs.  

State of Gujarat reported in 1983 (CRI) GJX 0252 SC: AIR 1983  

SC 7453 (1) it was observed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that in  

the   Indian   setting,   refusal   to   act   on   the   testimony   of   a   victim   of  

sexual assault in the absence of corroboration as a rule, is adding  

insult to injury. Why should the evidence of the girl or the woman  

who complaints of rape or sexual molestation be viewed with doubt,  

disbelief   or   suspicion?   To   do   so   is   to   justify   charge   of   male  


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                                  Page 50
 chauvinism in a male dominated society.
(65)           Applying the above settled principles of law to the facts 

of present case, I may observe that the prosecutrix is a young girl of 

12­13 years and has been most consistent in her allegations against 

both the accused.  She was known to the accused Manoj previously 

and in so far as Amit is concerned it is for the first time that she had 

seen him and had named him in the FIR and has correctly identified 

him in the Court.  
(66)           The Ld. Defence Counsel has tried to demolish the case 

of the prosecution and has argued that the statement made by the 

prosecutrix to the police and then to Ld. Magistrate and then to the 

Court, is contradictory on material particulars.  Ld. Defence Counsel 

has   pointed   out   that   in   the   first   DD   No.   82B,   the   name   of   the 

prosecutrix has not been disclosed.   Ld. Defence Counsel has also 

pointed out that the age given by the prosecutrix is much more than 

the age  shown   in  her  school  certificate   According to him in her 

statement under Section 164 Cr.PC the prosecutrix has given her age 

as 14 years which is contradictory to the age as calculated from the 

school record (i.e. 12 years).  He has also argued that the description 

of the clothes mentioned in the seizure memo and road certificate 

does not conform to the typed letter sent to the FSL and hence there 

may be tampering in the articles sent to the FSL.   Ld. Counsel has 

also  argued  that  when  the prosecutrix had left  her house she was 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                               Page 51
 carrying her mobile phone and was able to contact her family and it 

therefore   appears   to   be   impossible   that   she   could   have   been 

kidnapped.   He has also submitted that it is an admitted case that 

Manoj himself had assisted in searching the prosecutrix and under 

the   given   circumstances   it   is   impossible   that   he   could   have 

committed the offence.   Ld. Counsel has pointed out that there are 

also material contradictions on how many persons picked up her and 

how   many   persons   were   involved   in   the   incident   and   how   she 

returned   home.     He   has   also   argued   that   the  baniyan  which   was 

allegedly recovered from the vehicle in question, had been in fact 

planted because it is surprising that earlier the police officials could 

not recovered the same and it was only FSL official who were able to 

pick it up from the vehicle in question after about seven days of the 

incident and hence under the given circumstances the report obtained 

on   the   said   case   property   /  baniyan  cannot   be   relied   upon.     Ld. 

Defence Counsel has placed his reliance on the case of  "State of  

Punjab Vs. Gurmit Singh & Ors." reported in 1996, (Vol. 2), SCC 

384, wherein the case of "State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. Asha Ram" 

has been distinguished.  He has also placed his reliance on the case of 

"Lalliram & Anr. Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh", Criminal Appeal 

No. 791 of 2006 decided on 15.9.2008 reported in 2008 (1) SCC 69. 

The Ld. Defence counsel has vehemently argued that keeping in view 

the fact that there were no external injuries on the private parts of the 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 52
 prosecutrix,   the   allegations   of   gang   rape   and   sexual   intercourse 

against   the   will   of   the   prosecutrix,   cannot   be   substantiated. 

According to Ld. Counsel, the accused have no role to play in the 

alleged offence there being no iota of evidence against them.

(67)           I   have   considered   the   rival   contentions.     At   the   very 

outset, I may observe that the prosecutrix is a young girl aged around 

12 years (could be little more than 12 but in any case less than 16  

years of age not having arrived the age of consent).  Although there 

is no reason to disbelieve her version when she says that she had 

been   physically   lifted   and   sexual   intercourse   had   been   committed 

with   her   against   her   wishes.     Assuming   that   it   was   consensual; 

assuming that the prosecutrix went with the accused voluntarily; also 

assuming that the prosecutrix was carrying her mobile and was in 

touch with her family, I may observe that the prosecutrix being less 

than 16  years of age was legally incapable of giving consent and 

therefore   under   the   given   circumstances   the  question   of   consent  

does not arise.
(68)           Secondly  the   prosecutrix   has   very   categorically   and 

consistently   named   both   the   accused   Amit   and   Manoj   in   her 

statements first before the Police, then before the Ld. Metropolitan 

Magistrate   and   thereafter   before   the   Court   and   has   also   correctly 

identified them in the Court ruling out all possibility of any mistaken 

identity.
State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                             Page 53
 (69)           Thirdly it stands established that the vehicle in question 

was belonging to the uncle of accused Amit as proved by Surender 

Mohan (PW15) and this Surender Mohan has proved that on the date 

of  the  incident   his  nephew Amit  had borrowed his vehicle in the 

evening.     Hence   under   the   given   circumstances   this   provides   an 

independent  corroboration to the testimony of the prosecutrix that 

she had been picked up in a black coloured accent car which was 

driven by the accused Amit.
(70)           Fourthly in their testimony before the court the father of 

prosecutrix namely Rehman (PW20), her mother Zarina (PW19) and 

her sister Sakina (PW18), have all corroborated each other and also 

the prosecutrix that on the date of the incident she had gone to the 

market to buy milk in the evening after she did not return for a long 

time.   They have proved that they searched for her in the area but 

when could not be traced they approached the police.  In fact Sakina 

and Zarina have also corroborated the testimony of prosecutrix to the 

extent that after she returned to house.  Initially the prosecutrix did 

not inform them anything but it was later that she informed that both 

the accused had taken her and raped her and also threatened her not 

to disclose this fact to the police at the time of her recovery.  They 

have also explained that it was next morning at about 7 AM they 

went to the police station and inquiries were made from them.  The 

accused Manoj was known to the prosecutrix and her family being 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                        Page 54
 brother of her brother­in­law / Jija and had even come to her house 

on   couple   of   occasions   and   remained   at   her   house   for   10   to   15 

minutes but she did not know the accused Amit prior to the incident. 

The family of the accused also explained that they were not known to 

the   accused   Amit   previously.     The   prosecutrix   is   a   young   girl 

(virtually   a   child)   therefore   there   is   no   reason   to   disbelieve   her 

version.   Whether she went to the accused of her own or calling or 

whether she met him on the way, becomes immaterial keeping in 

view her age.   The explanation forthcoming for the delay in the  

prosecutrix informing her family about the incident appears to be  

natural and probable and delay of few hours is not fatal to the case 

of the prosecution.
(71)           Fifthly  there   is   further   no   reason   to   disbelieve   the 

version of the prosecutrix to the extent that it was Amit who was 

driving the car and Manoj pulled her inside.   She has specifically 

alleged that first it was Manoj who did  jabardasti  with her (raped 

her) and then Amit drove the vehicle to various places and then took 

her to an isolated place and left her near Mangolpuri ganda nala from 

where she returned home.   This fact also stands corroborated and 

established   from   the   version   given   by   her   sister   and   also   the 

Investigating Officer who have both confirmed that prosecutrix when 

contacted on phone informed them about the place where she was 

dropped and also confirmed that the prosecutrix was recovered from 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 55
 ganda nala Mangolpuri.  
(72)           Sixthly  the   collection   of   various   exhibits   including 

clothes and valval swab, vaginal swab and vaginal smears have been 

duly proved by the doctors and on the said aspect their evidence has 

gone uncontroverted. The DNA Fingerprinting Analysis conclusively 

establishes the presence of biological stains of Manoj in the  right 

valval   swab,   left   vaginal   swab,   high   vaginal   swab,   vaginal   smear 

slides, Salwar of the prosecutrix which she was wearing at the time 

of  the   incident   and   the  baniyan  recovered  from   the  vehicle  when 

inspected by the FSL Expert.  It is this which clinches the entire issue 

and confirms the incident and also the involvement of the accused 

Manoj.  
(73)           Seventhly  the   fact  that   despite   Amit   having   raped  the 

prosecutrix   later   yet   the   DNA   Fingerprinting   Report   does   not 

confirms the presence of Biological stains of Amit in the exhibits i.e. 

right   valval   swab,   left   vaginal   swab,   high   vaginal   swab,   vaginal 

smear slides, Salwar of the prosecutrix which she was wearing at the 

time of the incident and the baniyan recovered from the vehicle, will 

not assist the defence in any manner.  There could be a large number 

of reasons for the absence of Biological stains of Amit in the exhibits 

of the prosecutrix like use of condoms; not having ejaculated etc. and 

this cannot be a reason to reject the testimony of the prosecutrix qua 

the accused Amit which testimony has been otherwise found to be 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                          Page 56
 reliable.  
(74)           Eighthly  the   accused   Manoj   in   his   statement   under 

Section 313 Cr.PC has admitted that he is known to the family of the 

prosecutrix and has also conceded the incident in question when the 

prosecutrix had gone missing and states that he had in fact helped her 

family in searching the prosecutrix along with the police officials and 

in this regard he has examined one Rajesh Kumar his friend as DW1 

who has confirmed that Sukhbir and Renu had taken Manoj away. 

He has further examined one HC Sukhbir Singh from Police Station 

Begumpur as his witness as DW3 who has confirmed the case of the 

accused Manoj that he had been living with one lady by the name of 

Renu   (a   live­in   relationship)   and   the   sister   of   the   prosecutrix   i.e. 

Sakina is the friend of Renu.   According to Manoj, he had helped 

Sakina in tracing out the prosecutrix which fact both Renu and HC 

Sukhbir (DW3) have admitted.   However, HC Sukhbir has further 

explained that throughout Sakina had been expressing her suspicion 

on Manoj and it if because of this reason he had called the accused 

Manoj   a   police   informer   of   the   area.     HC   Sukhbir   has   further 

explained that initially Manoj had told him that he was at some other 

place but thereafter he joined the search when they picked him of 

from the SGM Hospital (which is on the way to Mangol Puri drain) 

and even then Sakina kept on insisting that Manoj was telling lies 

when he was pleading ignorance and that he had passed off her sister 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                                Page 57
 to some other person.   This being the evidence which the accused 

Manoj had himself chosen to lead in his defence there is no reason to 

reject   the   same.     It   rather   lends   independent   corroboration   to   the 

version   given   by   the   prosecutrix   that   she   was   first   raped   by   the 

accused Manoj who thereafter went away leaving her with Amit who 

drove her to the lonely spots and raped her and left her at ganda nala 

Mangol Puri.  Perhaps after Manoj left the company of Amit that he 

joined  HC Sukhbir,  Sakina and Renu in search of the prosecutrix 

claiming innocence.  HC Sukhbir (DW3) has confirmed that Sakina 

throughout   had   been   specifically   alleging   that   he   was   feigning 

ignorance   only   to   save  himself  from  penal  consequences  and this 

apprehension   of   Sakina   was   confirmed   when   the   prosecutrix 

disclosed to her that it was Manoj who had actually kidnapped her 

along with Amit and first committed rape upon her and the DNA 

Fingerprinting   report   conclusively   connects   Manoj   to   the   offence 

despite all claims to the contrary.       
(75)           Ninethly  as pointed out by the Ld. Defence Counsel no 

doubt   there   are   some   contradictions   in   the   testimony   of   the 

prosecutrix  with regard to the time, when she informed her sister 

about the incident, the place from where she was recovered.  These 

contradictions are however not fatal to the case of prosecution.  The 

prosecutrix 'M' is hardly a child hardly aged about 12­13 years  and 

even when she appeared in the Court to depose she was extremely 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 58
 perturbed and had even broken down while narrating the incident. 

The entire incident right from her kidnapping to her repeated sexual 

assault / rape by both the accused in the car and then having been 

dropped at an unknown place would have been extremely traumatic 

for the child to have precisely remembered the time, places where 

she was taken, the manner in which the sequence of events took place 

etc.  Hence, it is not expected for such a witness to recall everything 

as   if   possessing   a   photographic   memory   and   replaying   the   entire 

incident on a mental screen. Reference is being made to the case of 

Bharwada Boginbhai Hijri Bhai Vs. State of Gujarat,  reported in 

1983 (CRI) GJX 0252 SC:  AIR 1983 SC 7453 (1)  wherein it was 

observed by the Hon'ble Apex Court under similar circumstances that 

".... a witness, though wholly truthful, is liable to be overawed by the  

court   atmosphere   and   the   piercing   cross­examination   made   by  

counsel and out of nervousness mix up facts, get confused regarding  

sequence of events, of fill up details from imagination on the spur of  

the moment and that the subconscious mind of the witness sometimes  

so   operates   on   account   of   the   fear   of   looking   foolish   or   being  

disbelieved   though   the   witness   is   giving   a   truthful   and   honest  

account of the occurrence witnessed by him perhaps it is a sort of  

psychological   defence   mechanism   activated   on   the   moment....".  

Hence, in the present case merely because the child / victim has made 

certain improvements or filled up some details would not shake her 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                             Page 59
 testimony otherwise found to be truthful and credible. 

(76)           Lastly  there being sufficient independent corroboration 

to   the   testimony   of   the   prosecutrix   and   there   being   no  history   of 

previous   enmity   between   the   prosecutrix   and   the   accused   Amit. 

There is no reason why the prosecutrix or her family who were not 

even known to Amit and had seen him for the first time only when 

the   incident   took   place,  would  falsely  implicate him.   As  per  the 

provisions   of   Section   376   (2)   (g)   Indian   Penal   Code   once   it   is 

established that the accused have acted in concert then all of them are 

equally   liable   under   Section   376   Indian   Penal   Code  (Ref.:  

Explanation­1 to Clause (g) of Section 376 (2) IPC).  In the present 

case in so far as the accused Manoj is concerned there is no dispute 

and   he   has   been   conclusively   nailed   by   the   DNA   Fingerprinting 

Report.  In so far as the accused Amit is concerned he was not known 

to the prosecutrix previously.  The prosecutrix him as identified him 

as the boy who was driving the black coloured car   whose number 

she did not know.  It was only after after the arrest of the accused that 

Amit disclosed that the said black colour car was Hyundai Accent 

bearing No. DL­2CW­2698 belonging to his uncle Surender Mohan 

which he had borrowed on the date of the incident and in pursuance 

to the said disclosure he got recovered the said car.  His disclosure in 

this regard is admissible in evidence [in this regard reference is being 

made   to   the   cases   of  K.   Chinnaswamy   Reddy   Vs.   State   of   A.P. 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 60
 reported in AIR 1962 SC 1788; Zaffar Hussain Dastagir Vs. State  

of Maharastra  reported in  1969 (2) SCC 872  and  State (NCT of
Delhi) Vs. Navjot Sandhu with Shaukat Hussain Guru Vs. State
(NCT of Delhi) reported in AIR 2005 SC 3820].  In fact independent 

corroboration is forthcoming to the disclosure made by Amit from 

the testimony of his uncle Surender Mohan and there is no reason 

why   Surender   Mohan   would   falsely   implicate   him.     Further,   on 

inspection of the said vehicle by FSL team a baniyan was recovered 

from   the   same   which   was   sent   for   FSL   DNA   Fingerprinting 

examination   which   confirms   the   presence   of   biological   stains   of 

Manoj on the same.  How this baniyan came to the vehicle belonging 

to Surender Mohan which Amit had borrowed on the evening of the 

incident, is a fact which was in his Special Knowledge which he has 

failed to explain.   This being the background, there is no reason to 

doubt the version given by the prosecutrix qua Amit and the accused 

Amit being present with accused Manoj at the time of the incident 

makes him culpably liable for the same.  Although, there is no reason 

to doubt the testimony of the prosecutrix that after Manoj went away 

the accused Amit drove to her lonely spots and also committed rape 

upon her assuming that the accused Amit actually did participate in 

the   commission   of   rape   yet   the   Explanation­1   to   Clause   (g)   of 

Section 376 (2) IPC make him liable for the same.  The fact that both 

the accused Manoj and Amit having acted in concert make them both 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                          Page 61
 liable for the offences charged. 


FINAL CONCLUSION:
(77)           In the case of  Sharad Birdhichand Sarda Vs. State of  

Maharastra, AIR 1984 SC 1622, the Apex Court has laid down the 

tests which are pre­requisites before conviction should be recorded, 

which are as under:
(78)           Applying   the   above   principles   of   law   to   the   facts   of 

present case, it is evident that the investigations conducted including 

the documents prepared in the present case have been substantially 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                              Page 62
 proved by the police witnesses including the investigating officer. On 

the basis of testimonies of the various witnesses examined by the 

prosecution, the following facts stand established:

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                         Page 63
     ➢ That   accused   Amit   took   the   prosecutrix   'M'   in   the   car   to 

        various isolated places and also committed rape upon her.

    ➢ That   thereafter   Amit   dropped   the   prosecutrix   'M'   near 

        Mangolpuri Ganda Nala.
    ➢ That both the accused had threatened the prosecutrix not to 

        disclose about the incident to anybody.
    ➢ That in the meanwhile when the prosecutrix 'M' did not return 

        from market for a very long time and her family was alerted on 

        which they started to search for her.
    ➢ That the family of the prosecutrix lodged a missing report with 

        the local police and started searching the prosecutrix 'M'.

    ➢ That   the   sister   of   the   prosecutrix   namely   Sakina   had   her 

        suspicions on the accused Manoj who was also the informer of 

        the police and hence she along with Renu the live­in partner of 

        Manoj approached HC Sukhbir to help them in tracing out the 

        prosecutrix.
    ➢ That HC Sukhbir on his personal level provided assistance to 

        Sakina and Renu and made a call to accused Manoj asking him 

        to join them in the search of the prosecutrix.
    ➢ That accused Manoj joined HC Sukhbir, Sakina and Renu in 

        the search of the prosecutrix which is despite repeated protests 

        by Sakina  and  her suspicion that  Manoj had passed off her 

        sister to somebody which Manoj denied.

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                          Page 64
     ➢ That Sakina repeatedly alleged that Manoj was aware of the 

        whereabouts   of   the   prosecutrix   but   was   only   pleading 

        ignorance and joining the search to save himself from penal 

        consequences.  
    ➢ That   in   the   meanwhile   the   other   sister   of   the   prosecutrix 

        namely   Akeena   telephoned   the   prosecutrix   on   the   mobile 

        phone which she was carrying when she left the house and on 

        which   she   was   previously   not   responding   which   call   was 

        received   by   the   prosecutrix   in   the   late   night   hours   who 

        informed her that she had been kidnapped and dropped near 

        Mangol Puri ganda nala.
    ➢ That she immediately passed on the message to her other sister 

        who was searching for the prosecutrix and the prosecutrix was 

        thereafter recovered by  Sakina, Renu in the presence of the 

        local police and the accused Manoj.
    ➢ That initially when the prosecutrix was recovered at around 

        12:00   midnight   she   did   not   disclose   anything   about   the 

        incident to her family members but it was after a couple of 

        hours that she confided in her sisters and mother about what 

        had happened and immediately on the next day morning she 

        was   taken   to   the   Police   Station   by   her   family   where   she 

        informed the police of the incident.  



State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                           Page 65
     ➢ That when the prosecutrix was taken to the police station she 

        was in the same clothes which she was wearing at the time of 

        incident and had not taken her bath.
    ➢ That   in   the   Police   Station   statement   of   the   prosecutrix   was 

        recorded   on   which   the   present   case   was   registered   and   her 

        medical   examination   was   got   conducted   (including   internal 

        examination) where the exhibits were collected by the doctors.

    ➢ That the statement of the prosecutrix was also got recorded 

        under   Section   164   Cr.P.C.   from   the   Ld.   MM   wherein   she 

        supported the version given by her to the police.

    ➢ That during the investigations after Amit was arrested pursuant 

        to   his  disclosure  he got  recovered  the  vehicle in which the 

        offence   had   been   committed   i.e.   black   coloured   Hyundai 

        Accent car bearing No. DL­2CW­2698 belonging to his uncle 

        Surender Mohan which he had borrowed on the evening of the 

        incident.


(79)           The   medical   evidence   on   record   is   compatible   to   the 

prosecution case and the hymen tear confirms the rape having being 

committed on the minor prosecutrix.   The forensic evidence in the 

form   of   DNA   Fingerprinting   Report   establishes   that   the   profile 

generated from the source Ex.1b (i.e. right valval swab), Ex.1c (i.e. 

left vaginal swab), Ex.1h (i.e. high vaginal swab), Ex.1il and Ex.1i2 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                           Page 66
 (i.e.   vaginal   smear   slides),   Ex.1L   (i.e.   Salwar)   and   Ex.10   (i.e. 

Baniyan) belonging to the prosecutrix and the DNA Fingerprinting 

profile generated from the source of Ex.3 (blood sample of accused 

Manoj) is sufficient to conclude that the blood sample of Manoj is 

responsible for the biological stains present on the above exhibits 

of  the  prosecutrix.     The DNA Fingerprinting report  conclusively 

connects the accused Manoj to the offence since the biological stains 

of Manoj were found to be present on the exhibits of the prosecutrix 

and therefore, it is this which conclusively and finally clinches the 

issue in so far as the accused Manoj is concerned and connects him 

with the offence committed on the prosecutrix. 
(80)           The   prosecutrix   'M'   has   very   categorically   and 

consistently   named   both   the   accused   Amit   and   Manoj   in   her 

statements  first before the Police, then before the Ld. Metropolitan 

Magistrate   and   thereafter  before  the  Court.  There  being  sufficient 

independent   corroboration to the testimony of the prosecutrix and 

there being no history of previous enmity between the prosecutrix 

and   the   accused   Amit,   there   is   no   reason   why   she   would   falsely 

implicate Amit.
(81)            There are two stages in criminal prosecution.  The first 

obviously is commission of the crime and the second is investigation 

conducted regarding the same.  In case the investigation is faulty or 

has not been proved in evidence at trial, the question which arise is 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 67
 whether   it   would   absolve   the   liability   of   the   culprit   who   has 

committed the offence? The answer is obviously in negative, since 

any lapse on the part of the investigation does not negate the offence. 

(82)           The prosecution has proved the identity of the accused, 

the   manner   in   which   the   offence   has   been   committed,   place   of 

commission of the offence, the investigation including the documents 

prepared,   MLCs,   etc.     There   is   nothing   which   could   shatter   the 

veracity   of   the   prosecution   witnesses   or   falsify   the   claim   of   the 

prosecution. All the prosecution witnesses have materially supported 

the prosecution case and the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses 

do   not   suffer   from   any   infirmity,   material   inconsistency   or 

contradiction and are consistent and corroborative.  The evidence of 

the prosecution witnesses is natural and trustworthy and corroborated 

by circumstantial evidence and the witness of the prosecution have 

been able to built up a continuous link. 
(83)           In view of the above, I hold that the prosecution has been 

able   to   prove   and   substantiate   the   allegations   against   the   accused 

Manoj and Amit of having kidnapped the minor prosecutrix 'M' for 

forcing   /   seducing   her   to   illicit   intercourse   and   thereafter   having 

committed   gang   rape   upon   her,   criminally   intimidated   her   not   to 

disclose about the incident to anybody in pursuance to which threat 

the   prosecutrix   initially   did   not   disclose   about   the   incident   to 

anybody   but   after   great   persuasions   of   her   family   members   she 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                             Page 68
 disclosed  about  the incident  to her mother and sisters after a few 

hours.  I hereby hold both the accused Manoj and Amit guilty for the 

offence under  Section 363, 366, 376 (2) (g)  and  506 Indian Penal 

Code. The accused is accordingly convicted for the same.

(84)           Be listed for arguments on sentence on 15.2.2013.




    JUDGE­II (NORTH­WEST): ROHINI COURTS: DELHI
Sessions Case No. 31/2012
Unique Case ID: 02404R0096322012
State    Vs.       (1)      Manoj
                            S/o Ajay Kumar Yadav 
                            R/o M­559, Mangolpuri, Delhi.              Convict Amit in Judicial Custody with Ms. Mukesh 

              Kharb Advocate.

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                        Page 70
 ORDER ON SENTENCE:
              As per the allegations, on 6.2.2012 in the Gali near Shilpa 

Gas Agency, the accused Manoj and Amit kidnapped the prosecutrix 

'M' a minor aged about 12­13 years, from the lawful guardianship of 

her parents with intention to force or seduce her to illicit intercourse 

and   thereafter   committed   rape   upon   her   in   a   car   and   criminally 

intimidate her to kill if she disclosed about the incident to anybody. 

              The prosecutrix 'M' has appeared in the Court and made 

specific allegations against both the accused Manoj and Amit.   On 

the   basis   of   the   testimonies   of   various   prosecution   witnesses 

particularly   the   prosecutrix   'M',   her  sister  Sakina   and   also   on  the 

basis of the medical, forensic and circumstantial evidence on record, 

this Court vide judgment dated 11.02.2013 has observed that it stood 

established that at the time of the incident the prosecutrix 'M' was a 

minor aged around 12­13 years and was studying in class 7th and that 

the   accused   Manoj   was   previously   known   to   the   family   of   the 

prosecutrix   'M'   being   the   friend   of   her   brother   in   law   /  Jija  and 

occasionally visited their house.  It has also been established that on 

6.2.2012 at about 6:30 PM the prosecutrix 'M' had gone to the market 

to buy milk; that on the way the prosecutrix met the accused Manoj 

who asked her about the whereabouts of her sister on which she told 

him that her sister was at home and if he wanted to speak to her he 

should go to her house; that in the meanwhile the accused Amit came 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                               Page 71
 there in a black colour car bearing No. DL2C­W2698 (belonging to 

Sunder Mohan - the uncle of accused Amit) and opened the door of 

the car on which the accused Manoj forcibly pushed the prosecutrix 

'M' inside the case and threatened not to raise any alarm or else he 

would kill her; that thereafter the accused Manoj and Amit took the 

prosecutrix at an isolated place where first Manoj committed rape 

upon her in the car itself and went away; that accused Amit took the 

prosecutrix   'M'   in   the   car   to   various   isolated   places   and   also 

committed   rape   upon   her;   that   thereafter   Amit   dropped   the 

prosecutrix 'M' near Mangolpuri Ganda Nala; that both the accused 

had threatened the prosecutrix not to disclose about the incident to 

anybody.   It was further observed by this Court that it also stood 

established that in the meanwhile when the prosecutrix 'M' did not 

return from market for a very long time and her family was alerted 

on   which   they   started   to   search   for   her;   that   the   family   of   the 

prosecutrix lodged a missing report with the local police and started 

searching   the   prosecutrix   'M';   that   the   sister   of   the   prosecutrix 

namely Sakina expressed her suspicion on the accused Manoj who 

was also the informer of the police and hence she along with Renu 

the live­in partner of Manoj approached HC Sukhbir to help them in 

tracing out the prosecutrix; that HC Sukhbir on his personal level 

provided assistance to Sakina and Renu and made a call to accused 

Manoj asking him to join them in the search of the prosecutrix; that 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                               Page 72
 accused Manoj joined HC Sukhbir, Sakina and Renu in the search of 

the prosecutrix which is despite repeated protests by Sakina and her 

suspicion that Manoj had passed off her sister to somebody which 

Manoj denied; that Sakina repeatedly alleged that Manoj was aware 

of   the   whereabouts   of   the   prosecutrix   but   was   only   pleading 

ignorance   and   joining   the   search   to   save   himself   from   penal 

consequences;   that   in   the   meanwhile   the   other   sister   of   the 

prosecutrix namely Akeena telephoned the prosecutrix on the mobile 

phone which she was carrying when she left the house and on which 

she was previously not responding which call was received by the 

prosecutrix in the late night hours who informed her that she had 

been kidnapped and dropped near Mangol Puri ganda nala; that she 

immediately   passed   on   the   message   to   her   other   sister   who   was 

searching   for   the   prosecutrix   and   the   prosecutrix   was   thereafter 

recovered by Sakina, Renu in the presence of the local police and the 

accused Manoj; that initially when the prosecutrix was recovered at 

around   12:00   midnight   she   did   not   disclose   anything   about   the 

incident to her family members but it was after a couple of hours that 

she confided in her sisters and mother about what had happened and 

immediately on the next day morning she was taken to the Police 

Station by her family where she informed the police of the incident; 

that when the prosecutrix was taken to the police station she was in 

the same clothes which she was wearing at the time of incident and 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                          Page 73
 had not taken her bath; that in the Police Station statement of the 

prosecutrix was recorded on which the present case was registered 

and her  medical examination was got conducted (including internal 

examination) where the exhibits were collected by the doctors; that 

the statement of the prosecutrix was also got recorded under Section 

164  Cr.P.C.  from the Ld. MM wherein she supported the version 

given by her to the police; that during the investigations after Amit 

was arrested pursuant to his disclosure he got recovered the vehicle 

in which the offence had been committed i.e. black coloured Hyundai 

Accent   car   bearing   No.   DL­2CW­2698   belonging   to   his   uncle 

Surender   Mohan   which   he   had   borrowed   on   the   evening   of   the 

incident.
              This court further observed that the medical evidence on 

record was compatible to the prosecution case and the hymen tear 

confirmed   the   rape   having   being   committed   on   the   minor 

prosecutrix.     The   forensic   evidence   in   the   form   of   DNA 

Fingerprinting Report established that the profile generated from the 

source Ex.1b (i.e. right valval swab), Ex.1c (i.e. left vaginal swab), 

Ex.1h (i.e. high vaginal swab), Ex.1il and Ex.1i2 (i.e. vaginal smear 

slides), Ex.1L (i.e. Salwar) and Ex.10 (i.e. Baniyan) belonging to the 

prosecutrix and the DNA Fingerprinting profile generated from the 

source   of   Ex.3   (blood   sample   of   accused   Manoj)   is   sufficient   to 

conclude that   the  blood sample of  Manoj was responsible for the 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                           Page 74
 biological stains present on the above exhibits of the prosecutrix.  It 

has been observed that the DNA Fingerprinting report conclusively 

connect the accused Manoj to the offence since the biological stains 

of Manoj were found to be present on the exhibits of the prosecutrix 

and therefore, it is this which conclusively and finally clinches the 

issue in so far as the accused Manoj is concerned and connect him 

with the offence committed on the prosecutrix.  Further, it has been 

held that the prosecutrix 'M' has very categorically and consistently 

named   both   the   accused   Amit   and   Manoj   in   her   statements   first 

before the Police, then before the Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate and 

thereafter   before   the   Court.   There   being   sufficient   independent 

corroboration to the testimony of the prosecutrix and there being no 

history of previous enmity between the prosecutrix and the accused 

Amit, there was no reason why she would falsely implicate Amit.

              This Court has further held that the prosecution has been 

able   to   prove   and   substantiate   the   allegations   against   the   accused 

Manoj and Amit of having kidnapped the minor prosecutrix 'M' for 

forcing   /   seducing   her   to   illicit   intercourse   and   thereafter   having 

committed   gang   rape   upon   her,   criminally   intimidated   her   not   to 

disclose about the incident to anybody in pursuance to which threat 

the   prosecutrix   initially   did   not   disclose   about   the   incident   to 

anybody   but   after   great   persuasions   of   her   family   members   she 

disclosed  about  the incident  to her mother and sisters after a few 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                             Page 75
 hours.  Therefore hold both the accused Manoj and Amit have been 

held guilty for the offence under  Section 363, 366, 376 (2) (g)  and 

506 Indian Penal Code and accordingly convicted.

              I  have heard arguments on the point  of sentence.   The 

convict  Manoj  is  stated to be a young boy of  24 years having a 

family comprising of aged parents and three sisters.  He is 9th class 

pass and is doing the work of  Kharad  along with his father.   Ld. 

Counsel for the convict has vehemently argued that the convict is the 

only helping hand of his family.  He requests that keeping in view the 

young age and family background of the convict a lenient view be 

taken against him.
              The convict Amit is stated to be a young boy of 24 years 

having   a   family   comprising   of   aged   widow   mother,   one   younger 

brother and one younger married sister.  He is 9th class pass and is a 

Driver by profession.   Ld. Counsel for the convict has vehemently 

argued that the convict is the helping hand of his family.  He requests 

that keeping in view the young age and family background of the 

convict a lenient view be taken against him.
              On the other hand the Ld. Addl. Public Prosecutor for the 

State has prayed for a stern view against the convicts keeping in view 

the   allegations   allegations   and   also   in   view   of   the   fact   that   the 

prosecutrix 'M'' was a minor aged about 12­13 years at the time of the 

incident.  It is pointed out that the convict Manoj is involved in two 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                               Page 76
 other   cases   i.e.   FIR   No.   421/10,   under   Sections   380/457/34   IPC, 

Police   Station   Vijay   Vihar   and   FIR   No.   548/10,   under   Section 

324/341/34 IPC, Police Station Mangol Puri.  It is also submitted that 

the convict Amit is involved in four other cases details of which are 

as under:

              It is argued that both the convicts are local criminals and 

keeping in view their previous involvements, they do not deserve any 

leniency.
              I   have   considered   the   rival   contentions.    The   Hon'ble 

Supreme Court has in the judgment of State of Andhra Pradesh Vs.  

Gangula Satya Murthy reported in JT 1996 (10) SC 550, observed 

as under:
State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                          Page 77
               In the case of Shri Bodhisattwa Gautm Vs. Miss Subhra  

Chakraborty reported in AIR 1996 SC 922, the Hon'ble Apex Court 

observed that:­

               "Rape destroys the entire psychology of a woman  
               and pushes her into deep emotional crisis. It is a  
               crime   against   basic   human   rights,   and   is   also  
               violative   of   the   victim's   most   cherished   of   the  
               Fundamental   Rights,   namely,   the   Right   to   Life  
               contained   in   Article   21   of   the   Constitution   of  
               India,   1950   (in   short   the   'Constitution').   The  
               Courts are, therefore, expected to deal with cases  
               of   sexual   crime   against   women   with   utmost  
               sensitivity. Such cases need to be dealt with sternly  
               and   severely.   A   socially  sensitized   judge,  in   our  
               opinion, is a better statutory armour in cases of  
               crime against women than long clauses of penal  
               provisions,   containing   complex   exceptions   and  
               provisions."

              It has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court in the case 

reported in AIR 2000 Supreme Court 1470 that:

              It has been held by the Hon'ble Supreme Court that it is 

necessary for the court to keep in mind that the object should be to 

protect the society and to deter the criminal in achieving the avowed 

object   to   law   by   imposing   appropriate   sentence.     The   Courts   are 

expected   to   operate   the   sentencing   system   so   as   to   impose   such 

sentence which reflects the conscience of the society and sentencing 

process has to be stern where it should be.   (Ref:   Siddarama and  

Ors. Vs. State of Karnataka reported in 2006 IV AD (Crl.) SC 78).

              The offence of rape is barbaric in nature where the victim 

is ravished like an animal for the fulfillment of desire and lust of 

another man.   As observed by Hon'ble Mr. Justice Arijit Pasayat a 

murderer destroys the physical frame of the victim whereas the rapist 

degrades   and   defiles  the  soul   of  a  helpless  female.   The  primary 

obligation of the Courts is to ensure that minors are protected from 

all kind of exploitations.  In the words of Hon'ble Apex Court (Ref.: 

T.K. Gopal Vs. State of Karnataka reported in AIR 2000 SC 1669) 

sexual offences constitute an altogether different kind of crime which 

State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                           Page 79
 is the result of a perverse mind and those who are psychologically 

sadistic persons. 
              The prosecutrix 'M' aged about 12­13 years was a soft and 

vulnerable target and she was not in a position to offer any resistance 

to the convicts.  The convicts have taken advantage of a helpless and 

defenceless minor girl who could not even try to escape or express 

herself   and   was   an   easy   and   vulnerable   prey.     She   must   have 

undergone immense physical pain and agony when the offence was 

committed. The convicts went on to commit the ghastly, abominable, 

inhuman   and   barbaric   act   of   rape,   violating   the   person   of   the 

prosecutrix giving a lifelong trauma to the victim and her family.   

              In so far as the convict Manoj is concerned, he was the 

informer of the local police and has taken undue advantage of that 

status   and   felt   that   he   was   above   the   Law.    This   Court   has   also 

observed   that   even   the   police   has   been   most   indulgent   and   the 

investigations conducted were extremely casual and the possibility of 

this being so only to help the informer i.e. convict Manoj cannot be 

ruled   out   but   for   the   fact   that   there   was   other   over­whelming 

evidence (Direct, Circumstantial, Medical and Forensic) against him. 

The aggravating factor in the present case as against Manoj is that he 

was having a live­in relationship with one Renu and the sister of the 

prosecutrix namely Sakina was a friend of this Renu.  There was a 

dispute between the convict Manoj and Renu due to which reason 


State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                               Page 80
 they frequently approached the Local Police and Sakina (sister of the 

prosecutrix) sided with Renu being her friend and perhaps it is for 

this reason that the convict decided to teach a lesson to Sakina.  It is 

evident from the record that when the prosecutrix / victim was going 

to the market and met Manoj he first asked for her sister Sakina. 

However, after some time he instead took her away.  It is writ large 

that   not   finding   Sakina   the   convict   Manoj   targeted   her   younger 

minor sister 'M' hardly aged 12­13 years.  This incident being a rape 

for  purposes  of  revenge, only to teach Sakina and Renu a lesson 

cannot   be   over­looked   and   hence   the   convict   Manoj   deserves   no 

leniency.    I   hereby   award   the   following   sentences   to   the   convict 

Manoj:
State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                           Page 81
         3.    For the offence under Section 376 (2) (g) r/w 506 Indian 

              Penal   Code  the   convict   is   sentenced   to  Rigorous 

              Imprisonment  for   Life  and   fine   to   the   tune   of  Rs.

              50,000/­.  In default  of the payment  of fine the convict 

              shall   undergo  Simple   Imprisonment  for   a   period   of 

              Three Months.
              All the sentences shall run concurrently.  
              In so far as the convict  Amit  is concerned, I award the 

following sentences to him:

        3.        For   the   offence   under  Section   376   (2)   (g)   r/w   506 

                Indian   Penal   Code  the   convict   is   sentenced   to 



State Vs. Manoj, FIR No. 23/2012, PS Kanjhawla                            Page 82
                 Rigorous Imprisonment  for Ten (10) Years  and fine 

                to the tune of Rs.10,000/­.  In default of the payment of 

                fine  the  convict  shall  undergo  Simple  Imprisonment 

                for a period of One Month.
              All the sentences shall run concurrently.  
              Benefit   of   Section   428   Code   of   Criminal   Procedure 

shall   be   given   to   both   the   convicts   for   the   period   already 

undergone by them during the trial, as per rules.  

              The convicts are informed that they have a right to prefer 

an appeal against this judgment.   They have been apprised that in 

case they cannot afford to engage an advocate, he can approach the 

Legal Aid Cell, functioning in Tihar Jail or write to the Secretary, 

Delhi   High   Court   Legal   Services   Committee,   34­37,   Lawyers 

Chamber Block, High Court of Delhi, New Delhi.  
              Copy of the judgment and order on sentence be given to 

both the convicts free of cost and another copy of the sentence be 

attached with their jail warrants.
              File be consigned to Record Room.

