1.          The above named accused is alleged to have ravished
his own daughter of nine years age. Unbelievable, but that is
exactly what the prosecution alleges in the instant case.
2.          As per the case of the prosecution, the prosecutrix
namely 'M' (real name has been withheld in order to protect her
identity) was brought to the Police Station by her mother on
30.09.2012 with a complaint of rape. It being a case of rape, SI
Saroj Bala was summoned from PS Chhawla. On reaching Police
Station Baba Haridas Nagar, SI Saroj Bala met the complainant
Kamlesh and her daughter 'M' i.e. the prosecutrix. She recorded
the statement of the complainant Kamlesh wherein she stated that




SC No.01/13                                            Page 1 of 17
 she resided at C-35, Raghubir Enclave, Najafgarh, New Delhi with
her husband and two daughters aged 9 years and 7 years
respectively and studying in 4th primary and 3rd primary. She does
the job of stitching in Don Bosco and her husband is employed as
a guard in PACL Insurance Company. Prosecutrix 'M' is her elder
daughter. 'M' had been complaining of pain in her abdomen for the
past one month and she had got her medicines for the same. For
the last about three days, 'M' again complained of pain in her
abdomen and difficulty in passing stool. She took her to primary
health Center, Najafgarh on 28.09.2012 and got her medicines but
'M' did not get any relief from those medicines. She took her to the
same health center again on 29.09.2012 and the doctor prescribed
certain ointment. When she saw the body of the prosecutrix 'M' for
applying the ointment, she found swelling on her private part and
became suspicious. She took her          to the same hospital in
emergency and the doctor told her that 'M' has been subjected to
sexual assault. She made inquiries from 'M' who told her that papa
had done illegal act (galat kaam) two or three times with her in the
previous rented house and then threatened her not to disclose it
to anybody else or otherwise he would kill her.
3.          After   recording   the   aforesaid   statement   of   the
complainant Kamlesh, SI Saroj Bala took the victim 'M' to RTRM
Hospital and got her medically examined vide MLC No. 4249/12.
Thereafter she got the FIR registered u/s 376/377/506 IPC. The
accused was arrested and got medically examined vide MLC No.
4257/12. Exhibits received from the doctor after the medical
examination of both the prosecutrix as well as the accused were
sent to FSL for forensic examination. The accused is stated to have




SC No.01/13                                             Page 2 of 17
 made disclosure statement and also pointed out the spot of
incident. Statement of the prosecutrix u/s 164 Cr.P.C. was got
recorded.
4.          After the completion of the investigation, charge sheet
was laid before the concerned Magistrate, who committed the
case to the Sessions Court, as the offences involved were triable
by a Sessions Court.
5.          On 26.12.2012, the accused was charged with having
committed the offences punishable u/s 376/377 & u/s 506 IPC.
6.          The accused pleaded not guilty to the aforesaid
charges. Accordingly, the prosecution was called upon      to lead
evidence.
7.          The prosecution has examined 16 witnesses to bring
home the guilty of the accused. The accused was examined u/s
313 Cr.P.C. on 04.02.2013 wherein he denied all the incriminating
facts and circumstances put to him and claimed to be innocent. He
further stated that there had been quarrels between him and his
wife as his wife had illicit relations with somebody to whom she
used to sent text messages late at night and for this reason his
wife had got him falsely implicated in this case as he had been
objecting to her illicit liaison with that person. The accused,
however, did not lead any evidence in his defence.
8.          I have heard ld. APP for State, ld. Counsel for the
accused and have perused the entire material on record.
 9.          Ld. APP submitted that the prosecutrix and her mother
appearing as PW-8 and PW-1 respectively have completely
supported the prosecution case and nothing contrary to the
prosecution case has come out even in their cross examination. He
argued that it is highly improbable that a daughter of tender age
would level false allegations of sexual assault against her own
father and similarly it is beyond imagination to think that a mother
would tutor her daughter of tender age to narrate a false story of
sexual assault upon her by her own father. He submits that there
is nothing on record to disbelieve the testimony of these two
material witnesses and, therefore, the     accused is liable to be
convicted for the offences for which he has been charged.
10.         Ld. Counsel for the accused submitted that the FIR in
this case has been registered after about one month of the
incident and there has been no explanation from the side of the
prosecution for such delay. He further submitted that even
otherwise, also the prosecutrix has made significant and material
improvements upon her previous statement recorded by the Police
and, therefore, it would be against the cannons of justice to place
any reliance upon her testimony. He submitted that since the
accused had been raising objection against the illicit liaison of the
complainant Kamlesh with some other person, the complainant
wanted to get rid of the accused and has been successful in doing
so by implicating the accused falsely in the present case and in
doing so, she has taken advantage of the tender age of the
prosecutrix and induced her to narrate a false story of sexual
assault upon her by the accused. He further submitted that the
accused is a law abiding citizen and it cannot be believed that he




SC No.01/13                                             Page 4 of 17
 would even think of violating his own daughter. According to him,
the accused is totally innocent and is liable to to acquitted.
11.         At the outset I may note that it is not disputed on
behalf of the accused that the age of the prosecutrix was just nine
years in the year 2012, when the incident is alleged to have
happened. Even otherwise also, the school record of the
prosecutrix Ex. PW14/A, PW14/B and PW14/C also show that her
date of birth is 27.09.2003 which implies that she was just nine
years old in the year 2012. Therefore, it is established that the
prosecutrix was a minor at the time of alleged incident.
12.         The material witness for the prosecution are the
prosecutrix (PW-8) and her mother (PW-1). PW-1 has deposed in
her examination in chief that earlier she alongwith her husband
and two daughters was residing at a rented accommodation in
Najafgarh and they shifted to Raghubir Enclave residence about
one month prior to the date of incident. According to her the elder
daughter 'M' is aged 9 years and younger daughter is aged 7years.
She further deposed that for the last one month prior to her
lodging complaint in the Police Station, 'M' was complaining of
stomach ache. She provided some regular medicines for the same
to 'M' but she did not get any relief. 'M' was also complaining that
she is not passing the stool properly. She got 'M' examined at
Primary Health Center, Najafgarh on 28.09.2012 and this time
also, she did not get any relief from the medicines given to her. On
29.9.2012, she again visited Primary Health Center and the doctor
gave her some ointment for local application. During applying the
ointment on the private part of 'M', she noticed that there was




SC No.01/13                                              Page 5 of 17
 swelling around her private part. She again took 'M' to the hospital
where she was examined in emergency and the doctor told her
that some sexual assault had taken place with her daughter 'M'.
She inquired from 'M' as to what had happened and 'M' told her
that one month before, Papa had committed the illegal act (galat
kaam) with her in their home. 'M' also told her that her father
committed the said act twice or thrice and further had threatened
her that in case she disclosed it to anybody, she would be killed.
PW-1 further deposed that after consulting her own mother, she
went to the police Station alongwith daughter 'M' where her
complaint Ex. PW1/A was recorded. Thereafter they were taken to
RTRM Hospital for medical examination of 'M'. She also deposed
that on her asking, 'M' had told her that accused had inserted his
penis in her vagina and anus. She also observed some redness
around private part of her daughter 'M'. According to her, the
accused was arrested in her presence vide arrest memo Ex. PW1/B
and his personal search was taken vide memo Ex. PW1/C.
13.         In her cross examination, PW-1 admitted that she had
taken the job of stitching in order to supplement family income.
She also admitted that there used to be normal quarrels between
herself and her husband on household matters and denied that
she had called Police on account of such quarrel. She further
stated that in the month of August, 2001 itself, just three months
after her marriage with the accused, the parents of the accused
had lodged a complaint in the Police Station alleging that she was
beating them, however, the dispute     was    resolved    with   the
intervention of her parents. She further deposed that on
27.09.2012 when 'M' felt urge to pass stool, she asked her to go to




SC No.01/13                                              Page 6 of 17
 toilet. It was 10 pm at that time and she was preparing food in the
kitchen. She heard weeping sound of 'M' from the toilet. She asked
her husband i.e. the accused to see why 'M' is weeping but he was
unwilling to go there saying that 'M' would start crying for nothing
and started shouting. Then she herself went to the toilet and
asked 'M' what the matter was whereupon, 'M' told her that she
was not able to pass stool. 'M' was feeling intense pain around her
anus and vagina and was not able to sit properly. She requested
the accused to take 'M' to a doctor but he refused to do so and
started quarreling with her. However, after he repeated requests,
accused took 'M' to some doctor and got some medicines for her.
She administered the medicines to 'M' but the medicines did not
give any relief and 'M' continued to weep throughout the night.
Next day, she did not go to the office and took leave and took 'M'
to Najafgarh Health Center. She further deposed that she had not
narrated the happenings on 27.09.2012 in detail to the Police in
her statement.
14.         So far as prosecutrix (PW-8) is concerned, she did not
remember the exact date and month of the incident and has
stated that it happened three or four months before the date on
which she was examined in the court i.e. 7.1.2013. She further
deposed that at that time, she was residing with her parents at
another society in a rented accommodation at Najafgarh and
presently she was residing with her mother and sister in the
parental house of her mother i.e. with her maternal grand parents
(Nana and Nani). According to her, on the date of the incident,
when she was playing outside their room with her sister in the
evening hours, her father i.e. accused came and called her inside




SC No.01/13                                            Page 7 of 17
 the room. Her mother had gone for work at that time. Then her
father took off her pant and underwear which she was wearing and
he took off his own pant and underwear. Then he inserted his male
organ first from her front side and then from her behind. She had
used the exact expression as "Pahle usne aage se kiya aur mujhe
dard hua aur mein rona shuru kiya. Uske baad usne mere pichhe
se kiya. Mujhe bahut dard ho raha thaa. Meine rona shuru kiya".
She further deposed that after the act was over, her father
threatened her that if she disclosed the incident to anybody, he
would kill her. She came out of the room. Her mother returned
from her work at about 6 pm but she did not disclose the incident
to her out of fear. After about one week of the incident, she was
feeling some pain in her abdomen and was also feeling difficulty to
pass stool, at that time, she disclosed the incident to her mother.
She alongwith her mother had gone to the Police Station to report
the matter to the Police. Police officials got her medically
examined in the hospital and also took her to the Court where her
statement was recorded. However, she could not identify her
signatures at point A on her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. In the cross
examination, she deposed that her father used to go for work
sometimes in the morning and sometimes in the night time but
she did not know where he worked. Her mother used to leave for
work in the morning and used to return at about 6 pm in the
evening. She admitted that there used to be quarrel between her
parents on petty matters and some time her father used to beat
her mother but her mother did not call police at any point of time
for those quarrels. She denied that her mother used to come to
the house of her parents after quarrel. She denied that she had
narrated the incident of sexual assault to the police and before




SC No.01/13                                           Page 8 of 17
 this court at the instance of her mother. She also denied the
suggestion that her mother or anybody else tutored her to give
evidence before this court.
15.         It is evident that the description of the act of sexual
assault upon her by the accused given by PW-8 in her testimony
before this court is exactly on similar lines to that, which she had
given to her mother PW1 regarding which, PW-1 has testified
before this court. The testimonies of both these witnesses are in
sync with each other and corroborate each other in material
particulars. There does not appear any kind of significant or
noteworthy contradictions between the two.
16.         The contention of the ld. Counsel for the accused that
the prosecutrix has made material improvements upon her
previous statement, has no force as he did not confront the
prosecutrix with any such previous statement or any portion of
such previous statement, upon which, she is stated to have made
improvements. If according to the ld. Counsel, the prosecutrix had
not stuck to her previous statement while deposing before this
court, it was his duty to either cross examine her on the basis of
those statements or to draw her attention to those statements in
order to bring to light the improvements or inconsistencies. That
having not been done, it is very difficult to say that the testimony
of the prosecutrix, before this court, is an improved version and
does not confirm to her earlier statement. Even otherwise also I
find that the prosecutrix has been consistent in saying to her
mother, in her statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. (which has been recorded
in question answer form) and before this court that the accused




SC No.01/13                                            Page 9 of 17
 violated her first from front side and then from behind. Her saying
so is enough to construe that accused first had vaginal intercourse
with her and then anal intercourse. It is to be noted that victim is a
9 years old child and she is not expected to describe the act of
sexual assault like an adult female. A child of such a tender age
would not be knowing the names of the male and female sexual
organs and what does 'sex' or 'sexual intercourse' means or that
the act to which she is subject is called as 'sexual intercourse'. The
prosecutrix knew that whatever her father is doing to her is not a
good act but did not know that it is an act of sexual violence which
is illegal. The words in which she has narrated the incident appear
to be untutored, real and truthful.
17.         It may be noted here that while scrutinizing the
testimony of prosecutrix in a rape case, Court should not give any
weightage to insignificant discrepancies which are not fatal to the
prosecution case. The courts trying a rape case shoulder a great
responsibility and must deal with such case with utmost
sensitivity. Following observations made by the Supreme Court in
State of Andhra Pradesh vs. Gangula Satyamurthy, JT 1996
(10) SCC 550, are apt in this context :
18.        It also needs to be noted that the statement of the
prosecutrix in a rape case, if found to be worthy of the credence
and reliable, requires no corroboration and the court may convict
the accused on her sole testimony. The prosecutrix of an offence
cannot be put at par with an accomplice. She is infact a victim of
the crime and there is nothing in the Evidence Act, which makes
her testimony un-acceptable without corroboration in material
particulars. Her evidence must receive the same weight as is
attach to an injured in case of physical violence. Same decree of
case and caution must attach in the evaluation of her evidence as
in the case of an injured complainant or witness and no more. In
cases involving sexual harassment, molestation etc., the court is
duty bound to deal with such cases with at least sensitivity. Minor
contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of
the prosecutrix, should not be a ground for throwing out or
otherwise reliable prosecution case. The court must remain alive
to the fact that in a case of rape, no self respective woman would
come forward just to make a humiliating statement against her
honour.
19.        In the instant case, I find the testimony of the
prosecutrix, trustworthy and credible. It is far from being tutored
or manipulated. It inspires confidence and is corroborated in
material particulars by PW-1, the mother of the prosecutrix. Both




SC No.01/13                                          Page 11 of 17
 PW-8 and PW-1 appeared to be truthful witnesses. It is not possible
to tutor a nine year old infant girl    to give a false evidence of
sexual assault upon her. The manner in which the prosecutris has
described the perverted actions of the accused and the wording
used by her clearly demonstrates that she has has suffered
whatever she has narrated and there is not an iota of falsehood in
her testimony.
20.         Much emphasis was laid by the ld. Counsel for the
accused on MLC of the prosecutrix, Ex. PW7/A to contend that
there had been no penetration into private parts of the prosecutrix
and, therefore, the act of        vaginal intercourse and carnal
intercourse has not been proved. He argued that since the MLC
mentions that hymen of the prosecutrix was intact and the anal
area was normal, therefore, it does not support the prosecution
case with regards to rape or un-natural intercourse. He submitted
that if the prosecutrix had infact been voilated by the accused and
there had been penetration, which is essential ingredient of the
offence of rape, her hymen would have ruptured and she would
have got some sort of injury on her private parts. According him,
the absence of hymen rupture and absence of injuries on anus,
indicates that the prosecutrix was not subjected to either vaginal
intercourse or carnal intercourse and hence the offence of rape or
un-natural intercourse had not been established.
21.         The submissions of the ld. Counsel appeared to be
attractive in the first blush but in fact are without any merit. In the
text books of forensic medicine, a term has been used as Psuedo
virgin in which the tissue of the hymen is so elastic that even after




SC No.01/13                                             Page 12 of 17
 penetration/sexual intercourse, hymen remains intact. Hymen is
made of mucosal tissue (Psuedo stratified squamouns epithelium).
However, this condition is very rare i.e. probably one out of
thousands.
22.          Medical jurisprudence by Modi also tells us that :
23.         Hence, mere absence of tear or rupture of hymen in a
girl is not always indicative of the fact that the girl has not been
subject to intercourse and would not falsify the charges of rape.
Moreover, the laceration or the tear in the hymen in virgins remain
for just five or six days and after eight to ten days become
shrunken and look like small tags of tissue. It is, therefore, always
advisable to get a rape victim examined by a doctor as early as
possible. In the instant case, the prosecutrix has been got
examined by doctor after about one month of the incident, thus
leaving no scope of the rupture or tear in hymen being present at
that time. In such cases,the court should assess the evidence led
by the prosecution, other then medical evidence, cautiously in
order to arrive at the finding of commission of rape or otherwise.
24.         In the case at hand, as noted herein above,there are
no gapes or discrepancies in the testimony of the prosecutrix and
her version is absolutely reliable and acceptable. Her credibility
could not be shaken even during her cross examination. It may be
noted that the MLC of the prosecutrix shows that there was
redness in the vulval area which indicates that there had been
intrusion into her vagina. Even if the MLC shows that the anal area
of the prosecutrix was normal, it has to be noted that she was




SC No.01/13                                            Page 14 of 17
 feeling intense pain while passing stools and infact it had become
intensely difficult for her to pass stools, which condition was
discovered by her mother and took her to the nearby           Medical
Center. This means that the prosecutrix had suffered some
internal injurires in the anal area which have not come to the
notice of the doctor who examined her. Infact           the difficulty
experienced by the prosecutrix in passing stools was the reason
for which the offence committed by the accused came to light
otherwise it would have remained buried in the heart of the
prosecutrix. It also needs mention that the prosecutrix was got
medically examined by the Police after about one month of the
incident and it is most probable that the external injuries suffered
by her on the body parts by the acts of ravishment by the
accused, would have heeled by that time.
25.         Hence I say that the medical evidence on record does
not in any way militate with the prosecution case.
26.         Ld. Counsel for the accused also argued that the
prosecution case, cannot be believed as the FIR has been
registered after about one month after the alleged incident and
the delay has remained to be explained by the prosecution. This
statement of the ld. Counsel for the accused, needs to be noted
only to be rejected. This is a case where a minor girl has been
ravished by her own father and the father had threatened her not
to disclose the incident to anybody. It is, therefore, natural for the
prosecutrix to have remained silent after being sexually assaulted
by her father. A girl of such a tender age cannot be expected to
expose the illegal acts of her father as it requires tremendous




SC No.01/13                                            Page 15 of 17
 courage, which such a infant girl could not have mustered.
Moreover, the child was made to suffer the humiliation silently and
keep the incident buried in her heart on account of threats given
to her by the accused. Had the prosecutrix not developed difficulty
in passing stools, the monstrous acts of the accused would not
have seen the light of the day. I hold that the delay in reporting
the matter in the present case has been fully explained and it does
not effect the prosecution case at all.
27.         The reason for false implication put forward by the
accused seems to be very far fetched. According to him, his wife
has illicit relations with somebody else to whom she sends text
messages late at night and since he was against her such conduct,
she got him implicated falsely in this case to keep him out of her
life. The accused has not mentioned the mobile number of his
wife. He could have easily got summoned the call detail records of
her mobile phone to establish his contention that she has been
sending text messages to somebody at late night. Even his wife
(PW1) has not been cross examined on this aspect. No such
suggestion has been given to PW1. Thus, evidently, the defence
raised by the accused is fabricated, concocted and not worth
consideration.
28.         Even otherwise, it is highly improbable and beyond
any stretch of imagination that a mother would expose her
daughter of tender age to sex acts by inducing her to give false
evidence of sexual assault upon her by her own father, just to
settle any score with her husband. It does not appear from record
that there was acrimony between PW1 and the accused to such an




SC No.01/13                                          Page 16 of 17
 extent that she would stoop so low as to use her daughter as a
weapon against her husband.
29.        From the evidence on record, the only irresistible
conclusion which comes out is that the prosecution has been
successful in proving the charges against the accused beyond
reasonable doubt. Therefore, the accused is hereby convicted for
having committed the offences punishable u/s 376 IPC, u/s 377 IPC
and u/s 506 IPC.
