Present:- Sh. Alok Saxena, ld. APP for the State.
            Accused present in JC alongwith Counsel
            Sh. Ashok Kumar Tanwar, Advocate.
            PW-1,    PW-2,   PW-3    and   PW-4    examined,   cross
examined and discharged. At this stage, the ld. Counsel for the
accused submits that accused wants to plead guilty in this case.
He has also filed an application in this regard.
            Heard.
            Ld. Counsel for the accused submits that the accused
has now realised his mistake and, therefore, he does not want to
contest the charges framed against him and wants to plead guilty.
            I have talked directly to the accused and he also has
confirmed what has been submitted by his counsel. Accordingly



SC No.69/13                                             Page 1 of 5
 statement of accused has been recorded separately wherein, he
has pleaded guilty to the charges framed against him on
21.01.2013. He has admitted that when he ran way with the
prosecutrix R (real name has been withheld in order to protect her
identity) on 16.08.2012, she was less than 16 years of age and
they had sexual intercourse with each other with her consent. He
further stated that he has now realised his mistake and, therefore,
is admitting his guilt in order to clear his conscience. He also
deposed that his admission of guilt is voluntarily and without any
force, fear and coercion. It is also mentioned by him that he
understands that he may be convicted and punished for the
offences committed by him and he is prepared for the same.
            The accused has also stated that he was studying in
eleventh class when he was arrested by the Police in this case and
that his stay in jail has seriously jeopardized his career. He prayed
that he may be dealt with leniency.
            The manner in which the accused made the aforesaid
statement, reveals that he has done so voluntarily and without any
force, fear and coercion. It is also manifest that he is aware of the
consequences which he may have to face upon admitting his guilt.
It is, therefore, proved that the accused had committed offences
punishable u/s 363, u/s 366 IPC and u/s 376 IPC. He is accordingly
convicted for the same.
            Arguments heard on the point of sentence.
            Ld. APP submitted that the convict may be sentenced
to imprisonment for a maximum period prescribed for the offence
for which the convict has been convicted.
            Ld. Counsel for the convict submitted that convict has
realised his mistake now and for this reason he admitted his guilt




SC No.69/13                                              Page 2 of 5
 and, therefore, he deserves to be dealt with leniency. It is further
submitted that no force or enticement was employed by the
convict upon the prosecutrix and the prosecutrix had herself
accompanied him and engaged in sexual intercourse with him
willingly.   The   ld.   Counsel   also   submits   that   the   further
incarceration of the convict in jail would cause extreme hardship
to the convict who is a young boy studying in 11th class and would
be against the interest of justice. According to him, the convict
may be sentenced to the period of imprisonment already
undergone.
             I have considered the submissions of the ld. APP and
those made by ld. Counsel for the convict.
             The prosecutrix appearing as PW-2 has deposed that
she ran away with the accused on 16.08.2012 on her on volition.
She further deposed that thereafter they had sexual intercourse
with her consent. It is, therefore, manifest that the convict had not
employed any force or coercion upon the prosecutrix and she was
a willing party to the elopement and the sexual intercourse.
However, matters become difficult for the convict only because of
the age of the prosecutrix. She was less than 16 years of age at
that time as admitted by the convict today in his statement. The
accused has been convicted as he pleaded guilty to the charges
framed against him, showing a sense of remorse.
             The convict is a young boy just 20 years of age. He is
studying in 11th class. Therefore, in my opinion, if the convict is
sent to jail for some more period at this time, it will create
hardship and mental agony to him and further imprisonment of the
convict would not serve any purpose and would infact be against
the demands of justice. It is also to be noted that the convict has




SC No.69/13                                                 Page 3 of 5
 himself come forward to admit his guilt which implies that his
conscience has pricked him and he has realised his mistake. In my
opinion, the conduct of the prosecutrix herself in the whole affair
coupled with the accused himself coming forward to plead guilty,
thus showing utmost sense of remorse and respect for the law,
constitute special reasons for awarding lesser sentence upon the
convict than the prescribed minimum period of seven years for the
offence u/s 376 IPC.
            Taking into account all the aforementioned facts and
circumstances of the case, the convict is hereby sentenced to the
period of imprisonment already gone. He be released from the
judicial custody, if not required to be detained in any other case.
            This case again provides a grim reminder of what is
going on in our society these days. Girls in the age group of 15-16
years fall in love, elope with their lovers and willingly enjoy sexual
relations with them. They are fully aware of the nature and
consequences of their act. Hence one wonders why they still
continue to be called as a victims of rape and their sexual act with
their lover as rape, when it is not infact so. Today's girl of more
than15 years of age is not so innocent and numb as would be
lured into the sex act by a boy. They are more mature and nubile
than the girls of their age about 25 - 30 years ago. Then why
should the boys, who themselves are in their late teens or early
twenties be arrested and made to face trial for rape. Their
educational career is marred and they face incarceration in jail for
a considerable time, when the girl with whom they enjoy sex, is
equally responsible for the whole episode but nobody raises a
finger towards her. The Courts are flooded with such cases where
the parents of girl, after her elopement with a neighbourhood boy,




SC No.69/13                                               Page 4 of 5
 whom she loves and wants to marry, lodge complaint of
kidnapping pursuant to which the boy is held for rape as well. In all
these cases, the girls are aged between 15 and 17 years. The girl,
under pressure of her parents says to police as also to the ld.
Magistrate in statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. that she was kidnapped
and raped by the boy but when she appears in court as witness,
she turns turtle and deposes in favour of the boy.
            Now as if, it was not enough, the Govt. has taken
another step backwards by raising the age of consent for sexual
intercourse from 16 years to 18 years by enacting the Protection
of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and promulgating
Criminal Law (Amendment) Ordinance, 2013. It will, in my opinion,
based on experience, not do any good to the society but will be a
great disservice to the nation as it will open floodgates for
unwarranted criminal prosecution of young boys. Instead of raising
the age of consent for sex, the Govt. should have left it for the
courts to ascertain in each individual case whether the girl
consented voluntarily for the intercourse and whether or not her
consent was informed and deliberated upon. This should have
sufficiently addressed the concerns of the Govt. This court, as of
now, is powerless and has to follow the mandate of law as it is.
            Copy of today's order be supplied to the convict.
            File be consigned to Record Room.
