             The facts in brief of the prosecution case are
that    on   27.09.2006,    Smt.    ____Y___   mother   of   the
prosecutrix lodged a report at P.S. stating that she used to
reside with her family, i.e. her husband, a son aged 10
years and a girl __X___, here in after referred to as the
prosecutrix, aged 15 years. She was a student of class 9.
She used to go for tuitions at Lehri Colony at 2.00 pm. On
23.9.06 when they returned to their house, their daughter
was not found at their house. They tried to search her but
could not. However, they came to know that their


SC No.6/13                 State vs. Rakesh         Page 1 of 26
 neighbour Rakesh, originally resident of Village Lakeshwar
District Jonpur, had enticed their daughter and took her
with him. On the basis of her statement, police recorded
FIR No. 508/06 at PS Anand vihar u/s 363 IPC. IO visited the
place   of     occurrence     and   prepared   site   plan,   took
photographs and flashed message regarding missing of
prosecutrix. The police alongwith Chote Lal arrived at
village Lakeshwar, Distt Jonpur, but they could not be
traced. Thereafter, they went to village Kunwardah but she
could not be traced. When they were returning back and
they arrived at New Delhi railway station Chote Lal pointed
out girl __X___ and Rakesh on a road towards Ajmeri Gate.
They were apprehended. The prosecutrix was handed over
to Chote Lal. Accused was arrested. His arrest memo was
prepared. Statement of prosecutrix was recorded. She also
disclosed that accused had committed sexual intercourse
with her against her consent. She was sent to SDN Hospital
by W/Ct. Geeta and accused was sent to said hospital by
Ct.   Sanjay    Nagar   for    medical    examination.   MLC     of
prosecutrix as well as accused were prepared. Doctors took
some samples of the prosecutrix as well as accused and
after sealing the same, those were handed over to
respective constables. Samples were initially seized and
later on sent to FSL for testing and report. Statement of
prosecutrix u/s 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, here

SC No.6/13                  State vs. Rakesh          Page 2 of 26
 in after referred to as the Code, was got recorded. Police
after recording of     statements of witnesses and         on
completion of the investigation, filed a charge sheet
against the accused for his trial for the offences punishable
u/s 363/376 IPC.
2.           Ld. Metropolitan Magistrate after supplying of
copies of charge sheet and documents to the accused
committed this case to the court of sessions and the case
was assigned to Ms. Veena Birbal, Ld. ASJ, Karkardooma
Courts, Delhi as his lordship then was.
3.           Vide order dated 05.03.2007 the court opined
that prima facie case for framing of charge against the
accused for the offences punishable u/s 366/376 IPC was
made out. Therefore, charge against the accused for his
trial for the said offences was framed and read over to him
in vernacular language. He pleaded not guilty and claimed
trial.
4.           The prosecution, in order to prove its case
examined __X___ prosecutrix as PW1; Smt. ____Y___ as
PW2; Dr. Pankaj Kumar as PW3; Dr. Raj Pal as PW4; HC Anil
Kumar as PW5; Ct. Geeta as PW6 and Ct. Sanjay Nagar as
PW7.
 5.           At     this   stage,    accused    absented.   After
completion of process u/s 82/83 of the Code, accused was
declared proclaimed offender vide order dated 04-06-09.
The file was consigned to Record Room as material
evidence u/s 299 of the Code had already been recorded.
6.           On 5.7.2011 accused was arrested and a
supplementary charge sheet was filed. The prosecution
then examined Ct.Jitender Singh as PW8; Sh. _______Z_____
as PW9; Dr. HC Ashok Rana as PW10, Retired ASI Chander
Pal PW11; Chote Lal as PW12; Ms. Poonam Chaudhary as
PW13; HC Rajbir Singh as PW14; Sh. S.S.Rawat as PW15;
Sh. Pawan Kumar as PW16; SI Ravi Parkash as PW17; HC
Harpal Singh as PW18; Dr. Kamal Kumar as PW19; Sh.
Pradeep Kumar Mishra as PW20, and Dr. R.K.Pal, CMO SDN
Hospital as PW-21.
7.           Vide    order    No.20/372-512/F.3.(4)/ASJ/01/2013
dated 04.01.2013, on constitution of Special Fast Track
Courts for trial of sexual offences, Hon'ble District &
Sessions Judge, transferred this case to this court.
8.           After closing of prosecution evidence statement
of the accused u/s 313 of the Code was recorded. All the


SC No.6/13                   State vs. Rakesh        Page 4 of 26
 material and incriminating evidence was put to him.
Accused admitted that the       prosecutrix   was residing in
house No. _______________Z-1_________ Delhi and he was
residing in nearby premises as tenant. He also stated that
on 23.9.2006 prosecutrix arrived at his factory at Vishwas
nagar and took him with her and thereafter they went to
village Kunwardah, District Jonpur and that he was arrested
and he was taken to SDN hospital by Ct. Sanjay Nagar PW7
and that PW-3 Dr. Sanjay Kumar medically examined him
and prepared his MLC ExPW3/B and he opined that he was
competent to perform sexual intercourse and that the
prosecutrix was also taken to said hospital for her medical
examination and that their samples were taken in the
hospital and that the prosecutrix identified him and her
clothes as Ex. P-1 correctly. He expressed his ignorance
about rest of the evidence and pleaded that __X___ wanted
to marry him. He did not want to marry her. Mother of
prosecutrix went in his village with the proposal of
marriage of the prosecutrix with him but after coming to
know that he was suffering from skin diseases( white
patches), mother of prosecutrix declined to marry the
prosecutrix with him. Despite of that the prosecutrix still
wanted to marry him.
9.           After closing of evidence by the prosecution, I

SC No.6/13               State vs. Rakesh         Page 5 of 26
 have heard arguments addressed by Ld. Additional Public
Prosecutor for the State and Ld. Defence Counsel for
accused and perused file.
10.          It has been argued on behalf of Ld. Defence
Counsel that statement of prosecutrix is not reliable and
trustworthy and it has not been supported by other
witnesses. Testimony of prosecutrix was self contradictory
and unreliable. The conviction cannot be based on such a
piece of evidence. It would not be just and proper to
convict the accused on the basis of single testimony of the
prosecutrix. He submitted that accused is entitled for
acquittal by getting benefit of doubt.
11.          Ld. Defence Counsel further argued that date of
birth of the prosecutrix could not be proved by the
prosecution beyond any reasonable suspicion and doubt.
There are different addresses in the record. Name of
mother of prosecutrix has also been mentioned differently.
Ld. Defence Counsel further argued that prosecutrix was a
consenting party. The different records produced in the
court has shown that prosecutrix was above 16 years of
age. She was a consenting party. There are contractions in
the testimonies of prosecution witnesses. Sh. _____Z2___
went to the native place of accused and brought the

SC No.6/13               State vs. Rakesh        Page 6 of 26
 accused      and   prosecutrix    and    accused    was     falsely
implicated in the present case.
12.          On    the   other   hand    Ld.   Additional   Public
Prosecutor argued that prosecution has proved its case for
both the offences against accused beyond reasonable
suspicion and shadow of doubt. The conviction can be
based on a single testimony and the accused is liable to be
held guilty and convicted for the said offences. The
documents have proved that prosecutrix was less than 16
years of age. The witnesses have explained that name of
mother was ___Y1__ and _____Y____. The prosecutrix was a
minor less than 16 years of age and she never consented
to have sexual intercourse with her by the accused. The
discrepancies in the statements highlighted by Ld. Defence
Counsel are of minor nature and can be ignored.
13.          In support of her arguments, she relied on a
case, State v. Jai Hind, 2012 VI AD (Delhi) 170 wherein it
was held by Delhi High Court that:
Age of the prosecutrix on the date of occurrence
14.          PW1 on this aspect deposed that she studied up
to 9th standard in a government school. her date of birth
was 28.11.1990. In cross examination she stated that she
did not remember the year in which she was admitted in
the school but she left her studies in 2006 and at that time
she was 15 years of age. Her mother PW2 deposed that


SC No.6/13                 State vs. Rakesh             Page 8 of 26
 her daughter prosecutrix was studying in 9th standard on
the date of occurrence. She also told date of birth of her
daughter, the prosecutrix as 28.11.1990. She stated that
her daughter was born on 28.11.1990 at about 9:20 p.m. in
Safdarjung Hospital. Her birth was got registered in which
her name was mentioned as ___Y1___. In cross examination
she also stated that she did not remember the year in
which her daughter was admitted in the school. Her
daughter     failed   in   8th   class   twice.   She   denied   the
suggestion that her daughter was 17 years of age at the
time of incident. PW3 deposed that on 03.10.2006 he was
working as CMO in SDN hospital and on that day he
examined the prosecutrix aged about 16 years. PW4 stated
that he has examined the x-ray plates of prosecutrix for
bone age determination. In his opinion the age of
patient/prosecutrix was above 14 years and below 16
years. He proved his report as Ex.PW4/A. PW9 father of the
prosecutrix on this aspect deposed that age of her
daughter, the prosecutrix was about 15 years in the year
2007. In cross examination by Ld. Additional P.P. he stated
that date of birth of his daughter was 28.11.1990. In cross
examination conducted by Ld. Defence Counsel he denied
the suggestion that his daughter prosecutrix was more
than 16 years of age on the date of occurrence or that she
was a major. He admitted that he did not produce the date

SC No.6/13                  State vs. Rakesh            Page 9 of 26
 of birth certificate of Safdarjung Hospital or school
certificate of the prosecutrix. PW15 on this aspect deposed
that he had brought original birth register containing
entries regarding birth of children in Safdarjung Hospital on
28.11.1990. As per the register at Sl. No.1122 Smt. ___Y1__
w/o ____Z___ r/o A-76, Amrit Puri, New Delhi gave birth to a
female child at about 9:20 p.m. in Ward-IV, Unit-I,
Obstetrics. The copy of the register was proved as
Ex.PW15/A.   In   cross    examination       he   admitted   that
documents relating to admission and discharge of Smt.
__Y1_ w/o ____Z__ had been disposed of as per rules and he
proved the certificate to that effect as Ex.PW15/D-1. PW16
on this aspect deposed that he had brought the birth
register for the period of 09.11.1990 to 30.11.1990
containing birth entry of female child born from Smt. _Y1_
w/o ___Z__ r/o A-76, Garh, Amrit Puri, New Delhi-65. As per
that register, Smt. __Y1_ gave birth to a female child on
28.11.1990 in Safdarjung Hospital. The copy was proved as
Ex.PW16/A. In cross examination, he admitted that the
register brought by him was maintained by the hospital
regarding delivery of child. PW17 on this aspect deposed
that on 10.11.2006, he arrived at GTB Hospital               and
collected bone age x-ray report of Baby ___X___ wherein
the age of the prosecutrix was opined between 14 years to
16 years.
 15.          On the basis of evidence, discussed here in
above, it is held that prosecution has established on record
that prosecutrix was born on 28.11.1990. The arguments
of Ld. Defence Counsel are not convincing that prosecution
could not prove the correct date of birth or that the
prosecutrix was above 16 years of age on the date of
occurrence. The reason for this decision is that parents are
the best witnesses to tell the date of birth of their children.
In the present case both the parents have been examined.
They specifically told the date of birth of prosecutrix as
28.11.1990. Their testimonies have been supported by
medical evidence i.e. bone age record Ex.PW4/A wherein
the age has been mentioned as 14-16 years. Their
statement have also been supported by PW15 and PW16
who proved relevant entries regarding birth of prosecutrix
on 28.11.1990. The date of occurrence is 23.09.2006. On
calculation the date of prosecutrix comes to less than 16
years of age. It is, therefore, held that prosecutrix was less
than 16 years of age on the date of occurrence.
Kidnapping/abduction and inducing the prosecutrix to
compel marriage, etc.

16.          In   order   to   prove   its    case   that   accused
committed an offence of kidnapping, abducting or inducing

SC No.6/13                 State vs. Rakesh             Page 11 of 26
 women to compel marriage, etc. punishable u/s 366 IPC,
prosecution has to prove firstly that the prosecutrix was
abducted by the accused, i.e., accused either by force
compelled      or   by   any      deceitful    means     induced    the
prosecutrix to go from her place and secondly, the
prosecutrix was abducted with the intention that the
prosecutrix may be compelled or knowing it to be likely
that she will be compelled to marry any person against her
will or in order that she may be forced to do illicit
intercourse. Let us examine the prosecution evidence on
record.
17.          PW1, prosecutrix on this aspect deposed that on
23.09.2006 she was present in her house. Her parents
were away for their work. Accused Rakesh present in the
court had been residing near her house as a tenant. He
came to her house and told her to accompany him to his
village on the pretext that he would take her to different
places.   He    took     her     to   his   village    Lakeshwar    and
maintained physical relations with her forcibly number of
times against her will and without her consent. She
insisted the accused to bring her to her parents. On
2/3.10.2006     accused        brought      her   to   Delhi   on   her
insistence. When they reached New Delhi Railway Station,
police alongwith her uncle Chhotey Lal met there and

SC No.6/13                     State vs. Rakesh            Page 12 of 26
 apprehended accused with her. They were brought to PS.
Police   made    inquiries   from    her      and    recorded     her
statement. In cross examination, she stated that she was
taken in a three wheeler scooter from her house at about 2
p.m. She denied the suggestion that she was married with
the accused in a temple. There were 4-5 family members
of the accused in that house including his mausi, her two
daughters and one son. PW2 on this aspect deposed that
on 23.09.2006 she and her husband left their house at 9
a.m. and came back at 6:30 p.m. They found that their
daughter prosecutrix was missing from their house. They
tried to search their daughter in the neighbourhood as well
as in the houses of her friends. The accused Rakesh
present in the court was residing in their neighbourhood
and he was also found missing from his house since that
date.    He   started   searching   for      her    daughter.   After
searching for their daughter for four days, they went to PS
on 27.09.2006 and got recorded her statement Ex.PW2/A
which was signed by her at point A. After registration of the
case, police came to her house and prepared site plan. Her
daughter was recovered on 02.10.2006 and she told that
she had been taken away by accused Rakesh to the village
on the pretext that he would take her here and there. She
also told her that accused maintained physical relations
with her against her will and without her consent. PW9

SC No.6/13                State vs. Rakesh               Page 13 of 26
 father of the prosecutrix on this aspect deposed that on
23.09.2006 his daughter prosecutrix was missing from
their house. They made inquiry from their relatives but
could not find her. On 27.09.2006 they made a complaint
to the police. They came to know that accused Rakesh
present      in   the   court   who   was      residing     in   their
neighbourhood       had    taken   away       her   daughter,      the
prosecutrix. Thereafter, they went to his native village and
from there his daughter was recovered. Accused Rakesh
was apprehended. On 02.10.2006 he was called by the
police at PS and then accused and his daughter was
produced before the concerned court. PW10 deposed that
on 29.09.2006, he joined the investigation of the present
case with IO HC Rajbir, public witness Chote Lal and they
reached at the village of accused Rakesh on 30.09.2006.
They made inquiry about the accused but he was not found
there and then they arrived at village Kunwardah where
they came to know that accused had visited the house of
his brother. They reached at Jonpur City Railway Station
but he could not be found. They also boarded the train for
Delhi and arrived at New Delhi Railway Station on
02.10.2006. Public witness Chote Lal pointed out Rakesh
and girl prosecutrix. He was arrested and his arrest memo
Ex.PW10/A was prepared. After conducting of his search his
personal search memo Ex.PW10/B was also prepared. PW

SC No.6/13                 State vs. Rakesh               Page 14 of 26
 _____Z2___ also deposed that they had gone to village
Kunwardah and found accused and prosecutrix there and
they brought them to Delhi. PW13 proved statement of
prosecutrix recorded u/s 164 of the Code in which she,
inter-alia, stated that accused after enticing her took her to
his village where he used force on her, "jabardasti kari"
and also committed wrong act (galat kam). Moreover,
accused in his statement recorded u/s 313 of the Code
admitted that he went with the prosecutrix and he was
apprehended in the company of the prosecutrix. The above
referred evidence has proved that prosecutrix was not only
kidnapped but also abducted by the accused with the
intention that the prosecutrix may be compelled or forced
to do illicit intercourse.
Sexual intercourse on prosecutrix by the accused
18.          Prosecutrix/PW1 on this aspect deposed that in
the village, accused maintained physical relations with her
forcibly number of time against her will and without her
consent. PW2, mother of the prosecutrix also deposed that
her daughter/prosecutrix was recovered on 02.10.2006
from the company of Rakesh. She told her that accused
maintained physical relations with her against her will and
without her consent. PW3 proved MLC of prosecutrix as
Ex.PW3/A. He, inter alia, deposed that on 03.10.2006 he

SC No.6/13                   State vs. Rakesh     Page 15 of 26
 was working as CMO in SDN Hospital and on that day at
1:40 p.m. he examined the prosecutrix aged 16 years vide
MLC Ex.PW1/A. He also deposed that on the same day
accused Rakesh also medically examined by him vide MLC
Ex.PW3/B. He had obtained blood sample, pubic hair,
under garments, semen sample of the patient and handed
over to Ct. Sanjay Nagar. PW6 also corroborated this fact
by inter alia, deposing that at the direction of IO, she took
prosecutrix to GTB Hospital for medical examination. The
doctor after examination had given samples and she had
handed over the same to IO before seizing the same as
Ex.PW6/C.    PW7    corroborated     the   fact   of   medical
examination of accused Rakesh and prepared his MLC
Ex.PW6/B by CMO. Prosecutrix in her statement Ex. PW1/A
made before Ld. M.M.      u/s 164 of the Code, inter alia,
stated that accused Rakesh committed wrong act with her.
On perusal of MLC Ex.PW21/A, I find that it has been
mentioned in the MLC that hymen of prosecutrix was found
raptured and her vagina was allowing one finger easily. In
MLC of accused Ex.PW3/B, it was mentioned that there was
nothing to suggest that he could not perform sexual
intercourse. On perusal of FSL report      Ex.PW20/A, I find
that it has been mentioned therein that semen was found
on the panty of the prosecutrix. DW1, inter-alia deposed
that on 29.09.2006 he alongwith _____Z2___, etc. went to

SC No.6/13              State vs. Rakesh           Page 16 of 26
 the village Lakheshwar of the accused. Accused and
prosecutrix were having relations with each other as talks
of their marriage were going on. The prosecutrix was not
willing to come and she told that she had already
solemnized the marriage with accused in temple. Thus, the
defence witness has indirectly admitted maintaining of
physical relations by the accused with the prosecutrix. On
the basis of evidence referred to here in above, it is held
that it stands proved beyond reasonable suspicion and
shadow       of   doubt      that   accused     performed   sexual
intercourse with the prosecutrix. Consequently, it is held
that prosecution has successfully proved that prosecutrix
was kidnapped and abducted by the accused with the
intention that the prosecutrix may be compelled or forced
to do illicit intercourse.
Commission of rape on the prosecutrix by the accused
19.          In order to prove its case against the accused
for the offence of rape punishable u/s 376 IPC, prosecution
has to prove firstly, that sexual intercourse was committed
with the prosecutrix; secondly, that sexual intercourse was
committed with her forcibly against her will by the
accused. Let us examine the prosecution evidence on
these aspects:
 20.          The evidence regarding commission of           sexual
intercourse with the prosecutrix by the accused has
already been discussed here in above. Same is not being
repeated to avoid repetition. On the basis of evidence
discussed here in above, it is held that accused committed
sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix. Let us now
examine       whether   the     accused     committed       sexual
intercourse with the prosecutrix forcibly without              her
consent and against her will.
Sexual intercourse on the prosecutrix by the accused
without her consent

21.          The testimony of prosecutrix, PW1 on this
aspect wherein she deposed that accused committed
sexual intercourse with her forcibly and repeatedly has
already      been   discussed   here   in    above.    In    cross
examination too, she denied the suggestion that accused
was having relations with her for the last more than one
year. She also denied the suggestion that she had
maintained physical relations with the accused of her free
will after getting married with him. Accused has failed to
adduce any evidence regarding marriage of prosecutrix
with him. He has himself suggested having maintained
physical relations with the prosecutrix. Therefore, on the
basis of the evidence on record and particularly discussed

SC No.6/13               State vs. Rakesh             Page 18 of 26
 here in above, it is held that prosecution has proved
beyond suspicion and shadow of doubt that accused
committed sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix forcibly
against her will and without her consent.
22.          The other reasons which support my decision
about commission of offence of kidnapping/abducting or
inducing a woman to compel her marriage, etc. and
commission of rape by the accused are firstly, that as per
discussion made here in above, the prosecution has proved
all the necessary ingredients of both these offences. I
found the statement of the prosecutrix consistent, reliable
and trustworthy.
that he was having friendly relations with the prosecutrix
and they went to village Lakeshwar/Kunwardah, District
Jonpur and he maintained physical relations with her after
solemnization of the marriage. In this way the prosecution
case has been supported even by the accused.
24.          Thirdly, the other prosecution witnesses also
corroborated the prosecution case. For example PW5
proved copy of FIR Ex.PW5/A and endorsement on rukka as

SC No.6/13                 State vs. Rakesh          Page 19 of 26
 Ex.PW5/B. PW11 proved the fact of taking of sealed
pullinda from Malkhana to CFSL Calcutta. PW14 is IO who
proved all the documents and supported the statements of
other witnesses. PW17 is another IO who conducted part of
the investigation and corroborated the testimonies of other
witnesses. PW20 proved FSL report as Ex.PW20/A. PW1
proved handwriting and signatures of Dr. Amita                  on
Ex.PW21/A. Nothing in cross examination could come out
which could support the case of accused.
25.          Fourthly, the testimony of DW1 instead of
providing benefit to accused, supported the prosecution
case, as DW1, inter alia, stated that accused and
prosecutrix were having a relations with each other and
that they had solemnized marriage in the temple.
26.          Fifthly, on perusal of the testimony made before
this court by the prosecutrix and the statement given
before the Ld. M.M. u/s 164 of the Code, I find that her
testimony     is   consistent    and    beyond     creating     any
reasonable     suspicion   and    shadow      of   doubt   in   the
truthfulness of her testimony.           Similarly, there is no
inconsistency in the statement made before this court and
the statement Ex.PW2/A given by prosecutrix before the
police.
 27.          Sixthly, the prosecutrix was cross examined at
length. She denied the physical relations with her consent.
Conversely, she stated that accused forcibly maintained
physical relations with her number of times against her will
and without her consent. The entire cross examination
could not bring out any point which may create reasonable
suspicion and shadow of doubt in the truthfulness of the
prosecution case.
28.          Seventhly, there is no evidence on record
showing any motive or reason for the prosecutrix to
depose falsely against the accused particularly when he
was her neighbour and she developed friendship with him
unless he had committed the alleged crimes. My view finds
supports by a case Bharwada Bhoginbhai Hirjibhai v. State
of Gujarat, (SC), 1983 A.I.R. (S.C.) 753, wherein the Apex
Court observed:
 29.          Eighthly, the arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel
that PW21 could not identify signature of doctor Amita on
Ex.PW21/A will not provide any benefit as the physical
relations with the prosecutrix by the accused are not in
dispute rather it was suggested to the prosecutrix in the
cross    examination     that   accused        maintained   physical
relations with her free will after getting marriage with her.
30.          Ninethly, the discrepancies in the statement of
witnesses, pointed out by Ld. Defence Counsel on the point
of place of arrest of accused and visiting of police at the
village, etc. are minor in nature. They are liable to be
ignored in view of the principles of law laid down in State v.
Jai Hind, (supra) and in case of Appabhai and another v.
State of Gujarat, AIR 1988 SC 696 wherein the Apex Court
in paragraph 13 observed:
31.          Tenthly, the arguments of Ld. Defence Counsel
that prosecutrix was a consenting party will not provide
any benefit to the accused for two reasons, firstly, that it
could not be established on record that prosecutrix gave
her   consent    for   performing     sexual   intercourse    and
secondly, even if for the sake of arguments it is deemed
that she gave consent, her consent has no meaning as she
was under 16 years of age on the date of commission of
rape on her. Clause 6th of Section 375 provides that a man
is said to commit rape if accused has sexual intercourse
with a woman with or without her consent when she is
under sixteen years of age.
32.          Eleventhly,   the   arguments     of   Ld.   Defence
Counsel that there were different addresses in the date of
birth certificate will not provide any benefit as in all the
certificate name of father has been mentioned as Sh.
___Z__. Mother of prosecutrix explained about her two
names stating that at the time of birth of the prosecutrix
her name was mentioned as __Y1_. He also stated that her
real name was __Y1_ but after her marriage her name was

SC No.6/13                 State vs. Rakesh           Page 23 of 26
 changed to Sangita and she was having both the names.
This fact could not be rebutted by the accused.
33.          Twelthly, the parents have explained the delay
in reporting the case late to the police. PW2 on this aspect
deposed that they found their daughter missing from their
house in the evening on 23.09.2006. They tried to search
their daughter in the neighbourhood as well as in the
houses of her friends for four days and then they went to
PS on 27.09.2006. This explanation is satisfactory.
34.          Lastly, it is not only the duty of the judge to see
that one innocent person should not be punished even if
hundred offenders are allowed to go scot-free but also he
has to see that the accused who has committed the crime
must not go unpunished. It is also duty of the court to
separate the grain from the chaff as held in case of
Bhagwan Dass vs. State (NCT of Delhi), (2011) 6 SCC 396.
While   considering     and    analyzing     entire    prosecution
evidence this court has come to the conclusion that all the
oral, circumstantial and scientific evidence has proved that
the     accused       Rakesh      committed           offence      of
kidnapping/abduction or inducing a woman to compel her
marriage, etc. and committed sexual intercourse with the
prosecutrix forcibly against her will. Therefore, it is

SC No.6/13                State vs. Rakesh              Page 24 of 26
 bounden duty of this court to hold the accused guilty and
convict him.
                        CONCLUSION


35.          Consequent upon above reasons, discussion and
evidence on record and particularly discussed here in
above, it is held that the prosecution has successfully
proved its case against the accused Rakesh beyond any
reasonable suspicion or shadow of doubt that accused
enticed or took away and thereby kidnapped/abducted the
prosecutrix and committed sexual intercourse with her
forcibly against her will. Thus, the accused committed
offence of kidnapping/abduction of the prosecutrix with the
intent that the prosecutrix may be compelled or may be
forced to do illicit intercourse punishable u/s 366 IPC.
36.          It is further held that the prosecution has
successfully proved its case against the accused Rakesh
beyond any reasonable suspicion or shadow of doubt that
he committed sexual intercourse with prosecutrix forcibly
and repeatedly against her will and without her consent
and thereby committed offence of rape punishable u/s 376
IPC.
 37.          Consequently,   accused       is   held   guilty   and
convicted for the offence of kidnapping/abducting/inducing
woman to compel marriage, etc. punishable u/s 366 and
offence of rape punishable u/s 376 IPC, respectively.
Announced in the Open Court
Dated: 20.02.2013
                                 (DR. T.R. NAVAL)
                         Additional Sessions Judge, (SFTC)
                           Karkardooma Courts, Delhi




SC No.6/13              State vs. Rakesh               Page 26 of 26
