1.         Briefly stated facts of prosecution case are that on March 27,
2012, complainant (being the father of rape victim, his identity is concealed
and hereinafter he is referred to as either complainant or Mr. X) came to
police post Turkman Gate, Delhi and got lodged an FIR alleging that his
daughter (since she is the victim of rape, her identity is concealed and
hereinafter referred to as victim) aged about 14 years was missing from the
house since 4 AM on March 27, 2012. Complainant raised suspicion over
the accused Wasim and alleged that accused had kidnapped his daughter
(victim). On the basis of his statement, an FIR (Ex.PW1/A) for the offence
punishable under Section 363 IPC was got registered.
2.         It was alleged that victim herself appeared in the police station
Hauz Qazi on April 2, 2012 and got recorded her statement under Section
161 Cr.P.C in the presence of her parents stating that she had left from her
house in the morning of Mach 27, 2012 and she called the accused Wasim
at Turkman Gate. Accordingly, accused reached there in his car.
Thereafter, she along with accused went to Kaliyar Sharif near Haridwar
where they stayed in a guest house and they shared the bed in the night.
She further disclosed that they left from Kaliyar Sharif on April 2, 2012 at
about 11 AM and reached Kashmiri Gate bus stand at about 5 PM from
where accused got hired one TSR to her and thereafter she reached the
police station. On medical examination, her hymen was found torn. Her
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C was got recorded on April 10, 2012. It
was alleged that accused Wasim had surrendered himself before the Court
on May 25, 2012.        Accordingly, accused was arrested and he was


SC No. 47/12                                                   Page no. 2 of 18
                                                                      State Vs. Wasim


interrogated.   During interrogation, accused had pointed out the Guest
house where he stayed with the victim. At the instance of the accused,
clothes of victim were also recovered. It was alleged that the complainant
had also moved an application before the Court of the learned Metropolitan
Magistrate alleging that accused had threatened him to withdraw the
complaint. Accordingly, accused was examined in the jail.
3.         After completing investigation, challan was filed against the
accused for the offence punishable under Section 363/376/506/201/195 A
IPC.
4.         After complying with the provisions of Section 207 Cr. P.C., case
was committed to the Court of Sessions on August 23, 2012. Thereafter,
case was assigned to this Court on September 1, 2012. Accordingly, case
was registered as Sessions case No. 47/2012.
5.         Vide order dated September 18, 2012, a charge for the offence
punishable under Section 363/376/506 IPC was framed against the
accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.
6.         In order to bring home the guilt of accused, prosecution has
examined as many as following 14 witnesses:-
7.         After culmination of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined under Section 313 Cr. P.C. wherein he admitted that he knew the
victim as she was in his relation and further admitted that victim had made
a call to him and asked him to take her. He further admitted that on her
persistent requests, he reached Turkman Gate on March 27, 2011 at about
5.15 AM. Accordingly, victim sat in his van and thereafter they went to
Kaliyar Sharif and they stayed there at hotel Rahi Tourist Banglow till April
2, 2012 and he maintained physical relations with victim. However, he took
the plea that he maintained physical relations with the consent of victim. He
also admitted that he was medically examined and his blood sample was
taken and he pointed the guest house to the police. He further submitted
that when he refused to come at Turkman Gate, victim had given her
kasams (swear) and insisted that if he had not accompanied her to Roorki,
she would commit suicide. Accordingly, he went to Roorki along with victim.
He further submitted that he had handed over the love letters written by the
victim to the police, but police did not place the same on record. However,
he preferred not to lead any evidence in his defence.
contended that the prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of
accused as victim (PW9) in her deposition categorically deposed that she
had compelled the accused to accompany her to Kaliyar- Sharif and when
accused refused, she had insisted the accused persistently and also gave
her kasams (swear), accordingly accused succumbed to her requests and
accompanied her to Kaliyar Sharif. It was submitted that since victim had
compelled the accused to accompany her and there is no evidence that
accused had induced or enticed the victim in any manner, no case is made
out against the accused for the offence punishable under Section 363 IPC.
9.         Learned counsel further assailed the prosecution case by
vehemently arguing that since the victim was above 16 years of age and
she maintained physical relations with the accused of her own volition, thus
no offence is made out against the accused for the offence punishable
under Section 376 IPC, It was further urged that victim had not uttered
even a single word about the threat. Even the complainant had also not
alleged about the threat, thus no offence is made out against the accused
for the offence punishable under Section 506 IPC.
10.            Per contra learned Additional Public Prosecutor refuted the said
contentions by arguing sagaciously that since victim was just 14 years and
4 months old at the time of incident, her consent is not relevant to constitute
the offence of rape. It was submitted that since accused has admitted the
physical relations with the victim, it is established that accused had
committed rape upon the victim. It was further submitted that since the
accused had induced the victim to go to Kaliyar Sharif, Roorki and on his
inducement victim had left from her house, accused has also committed the
offence punishable under Section 363 IPC. However, he candidly conceded


SC No. 47/12                                                     Page no. 5 of 18
                                                                      State Vs. Wasim


that there is no evidence for the offence punishable under Section 506 IPC.
11.            I have heard rival submissions advanced by counsel for both the
parties, perused the record carefully and gave my thoughtful consideration
to their contentions.
12.            From the submissions raised by counsel for both the parties,
first crucial question comes forth for adjudication is what was the
approximate age of the victim at the time of alleged incident?
13.            In this regard, the testimony of PW2, PW3, PW9 and PW12 are
relevant.
14.            PW2 and PW3 are parents of the victim. PW2 deposed that
victim was about 14 years old at the time of incident whereas PW3 deposed
that victim was about 16 years old at the time of incident. But both the
witnesses failed to depose the exact date of birth of the victim.            It is
pertinent to mention here that PW2 and PW3 are illiterate persons. Thus,
they were unable to depose the actual date of birth of the victim. PW9 is
the victim and deposed that she was about 17 years old at the time of
incident. However, she also failed to disclose her date of birth. Thus, it
becomes clear that victim as well as her parents failed to disclose the
actual date of birth.
15.            However, PW3 in her deposition deposed that after the birth of
PW9, her birth was got registered after about eight days. In order to prove
the exact age of victim, prosecution has also examined Sub-Registrar of
Birth and Death as PW12 Mr. R. K. Gupta, who deposed that PW3 (mother
of victim) had delivered a female child i.e. victim on November 15, 1997.
The relevant entry was made in the register at serial No. 137 on November
20, 1997. He further deposed that the information about the birth of victim
was given by her grand-mother Amtulmubbin. Since the entry was made in
the register on November 20, 1997, it means that the information must be
given on November 20, 1997. Thus, PW12 corroborates the testimony of
PW3 that the birth of victim was got registered after few days of her birth.
In the absence of any contrary evidence, I do not find any reason to
disbelieve the testimony of PW12. In my opinion, testimony of PW12
establishes that the victim was born on November 15, 1997. Since the
alleged incident had taken place on March 26, 2012, thus victim was about
14 years 4 months and 11 days old at the time of incident.
16.            Next question emerges for adjudication as to whether accused
had committed the offence of rape or not? In this regard, the testimony of
victim (PW9), PW10 and statement of accused recorded under Section 313
Cr.P.C are relevant.
17.            Before analysing the testimony of above witnesses, I deem it
appropriate to refer sixth clause to Section 375 IPC, which runs as under:
19.            PW9 in her testimony categorically deposed that they stayed at
an hotel at Roorki where they (victim and accused) had physical relations
twice. She further deposed that she became pregnant from the accused.
In her cross-examination, she deposed that she had maintained physical
relations with the accused voluntarily and without any inducement or
pressure. Accused also admitted this fact in his statement recorded under
Section 313 Cr.P.C by stating that he had physical relations with the victim
but took the plea that he maintained the same with the consent of victim.
Since, victim was below 16 years of age at the time of incident, her consent
is not relevant to constitute the offence. Further, the testimony of PW9 is
also corroborated by the medical evidence as PW10 Dr. Pranati deposed
that on examination she found that the hymen of victim was torn. Thus, it is
proved beyond the shadow of all reasonable doubts that accused had
maintained physical relations with the victim despite the fact that she was
below 16 years of age at the time of incident, thus the act of accused
amounts to 'rape' as defined under clause sixth to Section 375 IPC, hence
accused is liable for the offence punishable under Section 376 IPC.
20.            Next question arises for adjudication as to whether there are
sufficient evidence to constitute the offence punishable under Section 363
IPC or not? In this regard, the testimony of PW9 is relevant.
21.            Before analysing the testimony of victim (PW9), I deem it


SC No. 47/12                                                      Page no. 8 of 18
                                                                              State Vs. Wasim


appropriate to have a look over the relevant provisions of law and case law
as well.
22.            In order to prove the guilt of accused for the offence punishable
under Section 363 IPC, prosecution is duty bound to fulfil the requirements
of kidnapping as defined under section 361 IPC and same runs as under:-
23.             In case S.Varadarajan v. State of Madras AIR 1965 SC 942,
it was held:-
                 Natarajan at the instance or even a suggestion of the
                 appellant. In fact she candidly admits that on the morning

SC No. 47/12                                                            Page no. 9 of 18
                                                                            State Vs. Wasim


               of October 1st, she herself telephoned to the appellant to
               meet her in his car at a certain place, went up to that
               place and finding him waiting in the car got into that car of
               her own accord. No doubt, she says that she did not tell
               the appellant where to go and that it was the appellant
               himself who drove the car to Guindy and then to Mylapore
               and other places. Further, Savitri has stated that she had
               decided to marry the appellant. There is no suggestion
               that the appellant took her to the Sub-Registrar's office
               and got the agreement of marriage registered there
               (thinking that this was sufficient in law to make them man
               and wife) by force or blandishments or anything like that.
               On the other hand the evidence of the girl leaves no doubt
               that the insistence of marriage came from her side. The
               appellant, by complying with her wishes can by no stretch
               of imagination be said to have taken her out of the
               keeping of her lawful guardian. After the registration of the
               agreement both the appellant and Savitri lived as man
               and wife and visited different places. There is no
               suggestion in Savitri's evidence, who, it may be
               mentioned had attained the age of discretion and was on
               the verge of attaining majority that she was made by the
               appellant to accompany him by administering any threat
               to her or by any blandishments. The fact of her
               accompany him the appellant all along is quite consistent
               with Savitri's own desire to be the wife of the appellant in
               which the desire of accompanying him wherever he went
               was of course implicit. In these circumstances we find
               nothing from which an inference could be drawn that the
               appellant had been guilty of taking away Savitri out of the
               keeping of her father. She willingly accompanied him and
               the law did not cast upon him the duty of taking her back
               to her father's house or even of telling her not to
               accompany him."
               Para-9: "It must, however, be borne in mind that there is
               a distinction between "taking" and allowing a minor to
               accompany a person. The two expressions are not
               synonymous though we would like to guard ourselves
               from laying down that in no conceivable circumstances
               can the two be regarded as meaning the same thing for
               the purposes of S. 361 of the Indian Penal Code. We
               would limit ourselves to a case like the present where the
               minor alleged to have been taken by the accused person
               left her father's protection knowing and having capacity to
               know the full import of what she was doing voluntarily
               joins the accused person. In such a case we do not think
               that the accused can be said to have taken her away from

SC No. 47/12                                                           Page no. 10 of 18
                                                                                           State Vs. Wasim


               the keeping her lawful guardian. Something more has to
               be shown in a case of this kind and that is some kind of
               inducement held out by the accused person or an active
               participation by him in the formation of the intention of the
               minor to leave the house of the guardian."
               "It would, however, be sufficient if the prosecution
               establishes that though immediately prior to the minor
               leaving the father's protection no active part was played
               by the accused, he had at some earlier stage solicited or
               persuaded the minor to do so. If evidence to establish one
               of those things is lacking it would not be legitimate to infer
               that the accused is guilty of taking the minor out of the
               keeping of the lawful guardian merely because after she
               has actually left her guardian's house or a house where
               her guardian had kept her, joined the accused and the
               accused helped her in her design not to return to her
               guardian's house by taking her along with him from place
               to place. No doubt, the part played by the accused could
               be regarded as facilitating the fulfilment of the intention of
               the girl. But that part falls short of an inducement to the
               minor to slip out of the keeping of her lawful guardian and
               is, therefore, not tantamount to "taking".
                                                         (emphasis supplied)


24.            In case Parkash v. State of Haryana, AIR 2004, SC 277, it
was held:-
               Reg v. Handley and another, (175 English Reports 890)
               and Reg v. Robb (176 English Reports 466). In the first
               case Job Timmins was convicted of an indictment
               framed upon 9 Geo. IV, Clause 31, Section 20 for
               taking an unmarried girl under sixteen out of the
               possession of her father, and against his will. It was
               observed by Erle, C. J. that the statute was passed for
               the protection of parents and for preventing unmarried
               girls from being taken out of possession of their
               parents against their will. Limiting the judgment to the
               facts of that case it was said that no deception or
               forwardness on the part of the girl in such cases could
               prevent the person taking her away from being guilty of
               the offence in question. The second decision is
               authority for the view that in order to constitute an
               offence under 9 Geo. IV, Clause 31, Section 20 it is
               sufficient if by moral force a willingness on the part of
               the girl to go away with the prisoner is created; but if
               her going away with the prisoner is entirely voluntary,
               no offence is committed. The last case was of a
               conviction under the Statute (24 and 25 Vict. Clause
               100, Section 55). There inducement by previous
               promise or persuasion was held sufficient to bring the
               case within the mischief of the State. In the English
               Statutes the expression used was "take out of the
               possession" and not "out of the keeping" as used in
               Section 361, I. P. C. But that expression was construed
               in the English decisions not to require actual manual
               possession. It was enough if at the time of the taking
               the girl continued under the care, charge and control of

SC No. 47/12                                                          Page no. 12 of 18
                                                                            State Vs. Wasim


               the parent : See Reg v. Manketelow (6 Cox Criminal
               Cases 143). These decisions were held to confirm the
               view that Section 361 is designed also to protect the
               sacred right of the guardians with respect to their minor
               wards.
               Para8: "The position was again reiterated in Thakorlal
               D. Vadgama v. The State of Gujarat (AIR 1973 SC
               2313) wherein it was, inter alia, observed as follows :
               "The expression used in Section 361, I.P.C. is
               "whoever takes or entices any minor". The word
               "takes" does not necessarily connote taking by force
               and it is not confined only to use of force, actual or
               constructive. This word merely means, "to cause to
               go," "to escort" or "to get into possession". No doubt it
               does mean physical taking, but not necessarily by use
               of force or fraud. The word "entice" seems to involve
               the idea of inducement or allurement by giving rise to
               hope or desire in the other. This can take many forms,
               difficult to visualise and describe exhaustively; some of
               them may be quite subtle, depending for their success
               on the mental state of the person at the time when the
               inducement is intended to operate. This may work
               immediately or it may create continuous and gradual
               but imperceptible impression culminating after some
               time, in achieving its ultimate purposes of successful
               inducement. The two words "takes" and "entices", as
               used in Section 361, I. P. C. are in our opinion,
               intended to be read together so that each takes to
               some extent its colour and content from the other. The
               statutory language suggests that if the minor leaves
               her parental home completely uninfluenced by any
               promise, offer or inducement emanating from the guilty
               party, then the latter cannot be considered to have
               committed the offence as defined in Section 361, I. P.
               C."
                                                      (emphasis supplied)


25.            In the light of above settled proposition of law, the deposition of
PW9 will be analyzed to ascertain as to whether accused had committed
the offence of kidnapping or not?
26.            Now, I proceed to examine the testimony of PW9 (victim) to
ascertain as to whether there was any inducement or enticement on the
part of accused or not?      PW9 in her examination-in-chief categorically
deposed that on March 26, 2012, her father scolded her on the point of
watching T.V. Accordingly, she made a call to accused Wasim and asked
him to take her away from there. She further deposed that accused Wasim
refused to accept her request and asked her not to leave the house. She
further deposed that she requested the accused persistently and also gave
her kasam (swear) to him. Upon this, accused agreed to come and
accordingly accused reached Turkman gate on March 27, 2012 at about
5.15 AM. She further deposed that accused reached there at her repeated
requests and further deposed that accused reached there in a maruti van
and accordingly, she sat therein of her own and at that time, accused again
asked her to think over but she insisted to take her away from there. She
further deposed that she asked the accused to go to Kaliyar Sharif, Roorki.
Accordingly, they went there and stayed at an hotel in Roorki till April 2,
2012, thereafter they returned to Delhi on April 2, 2012.        She further
deposed that she stayed there of her own free will and accused was not
responsible in any manner. Though PW9 was cross-examined by learned
Additional Public Prosecutor but even no suggestion was put to her that
accused had induced or enticed her in any manner.            Thus, from her
deposition, it becomes crystal clear that accused did not induce the victim
in any manner. On the converse, it was the victim, who made repeated
requests to the accused to reach Turkman Gate on March 27, 2012 and
even at that time also he asked the victim to ponder over her decision
but she persistently requested the accused to take her away from there,
accordingly accused and victim left for Kaliyar Sharif, Roorki. Thus, there is
no iota of evidence to show that accused had induced or enticed the victim
in any manner. Thus, in the light of the above settled proposition of law, I


SC No. 47/12                                                   Page no. 14 of 18
                                                                   State Vs. Wasim


am of the opinion that prosecution has miserably failed to bring home the
guilt of accused for the offence punishable under Section 363 IPC.
27.            Next question arises as to whether there is any evidence to
prove the guilt of accused for the offence punishable under Section 506
IPC.
28.             In this regard, the testimony of PW2, PW3 and PW9 are
relevant. Perusal of their testimony reveals that they have not uttered even
a single word about any threat or criminal intimidation. Thus, there is no
infinitesimal evidence on record to bring home the guilt of accused for the
offence punishable under Section 506 IPC.
Conclusion:
29.            Pondering over the ongoing discussion, I am of the considered
opinion that prosecution has succeeded to bring home the guilt of accused
for the offence punishable under Section 376 IPC beyond the shadow of all
reasonable doubts.        Thus, I hereby hold the accused Wasim guilty
thereunder. However, prosecution has miserably failed to bring home the
guilt of accused for the offence punishable under Section 363/506 IPC,
thus, I hereby acquit the accused thereunder.
Announced in the open Court
On this 21st day of February 2013
                                              (Pawan Kumar Jain)
                                         Additional Sessions Judge-01,
                                              Central, THC/Delhi




SC No. 47/12                                                  Page no. 15 of 18
                                                                State Vs. Wasim


        IN THE COURT OF SH. PAWAN KUMAR JAIN,
               ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE-01(CENTRAL)
                       TIS HAZARI COURTS: DELHI


SC No. 47 of 2012
ID No: 02401R0390982012


                                 FIR No. : 42/2012
                                 PS      : Chandni Mahal
                                 U/S      : 363/376/506/201/195-A IPC

STATE


       VERSUS


WASIM
S/o Azimuddin
R/o Block No. 27, Jhuggi No. 23,
Trilok Puri, Delhi

                                                          ........Convict


Present:        Sh. R.K. Tanwar, Additional Public Prosecutor for
                the State
                Sh. Lokesh Khanna, Advocate, counsel for the convict




ORDER ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE:
1.              Vide separate judgment dated February 21, 2013, accused
Wasim has been held guilty for the offence punishable under Section 376
IPC.
2.             Learned counsel appearing for the convict requests for a
lenient view on the ground that convict is a young boy of 26 years old and
he is the sole bread earner of his family.
3.             On the converse, Additional Public Prosecutor for the State
requests for maximum sentence on the ground that convict had committed
rape upon the minor girl aged about 14 years 4 months old.
4.             I have heard rival submissions advanced by counsel for both
the parties, perused the record carefully and gave my thoughful
consideration to their contentions.
5.             Rape is the only crime where victim becomes the accused as
the rape victim especially, if victim is child, has to face short-term and long-
tern harm, including psychopathology in later life, psychological, emotional,
physical, and social effects include depression post traumatic stress
disorder, anxiety, eating disorders, poor self-esteem, dissociative and
anxiety disorders; general psychological distress and disorders such as
somatization, neurosis, chronic pain, sexualized behaviour, school/learning
problems; and behaviour problems including substance abuse, destructive
behaviour, criminality in adulthood and suicide.
6.             Considering the ill effects of the rape and the fact that in the
instant case also victim became pregnant and learned Additional Public
Prosecutor pointed out that she has delivered a female child recently, I do
not find any reason to take a lenient view as requested by learned defence
counsel. Moreover, the minimum sentence has been provided under the
IPC and no special reason has been pointed out to impose lesser


SC No. 47/12                                                     Page no. 17 of 18
                                                                    State Vs. Wasim


sentence.
7.             In the light of above discussion, I hereby sentence the convict
Wasim rigorous imprisonment for seven years and a fine of ` 10,000/- in
default he shall further undergo simple imprisonment for a period of six
months for the offence punishable under Section 376 IPC. Benefit of
Section 428 of the Code of Criminal Procedure be given to convict.
8              Fine amount is not paid.
9.             Copy of judgment along with order on the point of sentence be
given to the convict/his counsel free of cost.
10.             File be consigned to record room.
Announced in the open Court
On this 22th day of February 2013
                                                 [PAWAN KUMAR JAIN]
                                                 ASJ-01/CENTRAL/DELHI
                                                       22.02.2013




SC No. 47/12                                                   Page no. 18 of 18
 